To  Richardstrauss' tone poem Thus Spake Zarathustra, the title sequence shows the sun rising behind the Earth, which is behind the moon.  Title  The Dawn of Man  In a sere African landscape, a group of apelike hominids and some tapirs compete for the meagre green plants. A leopard attacks an ape. While one group of apes is drinking at a waterhole, another group approaches the two groups scream at each other and one party is driven off. At night the apes huddle in fear among the rocks. In the morning a tall, thin, rectangular black monolith stands among the rocks. The apes are excited but touch the object and calm down.   An ape Danielrichter lifts a femur bone from a skeletal pile and realizes it makes a fine weapon.  The ape realizes that it can destroy other bones with the club. Three turning points in evolution happen simultaneously protohumans learn to kill with weapons, to hunt using weapons and eat meat, and to walk upright. Clubcarrying apes approach the group that drove them away from their waterhole. The clubcarriers bludgeon the other group's alpha male to death and chase off the rest. The victorious alpha male throws his club and it spins into the air.   TMA1, or the Monolith on the Moon   The spinning bone segues instantly to spaceships above Earth. A PanAm space shuttle approaches a large spinning space station, its revolutions mirroring those of the ape's spinning bone. As a single passenger dozes in his seat, a flight attendant with Velcro shoes recovers his floating pen. The shuttle pilots carefully match rotation and steer the shuttle into the station's central docking bay.   Dr. Heywoodfloydwilliamsylvester meets an old friend in the Arrivals lounge. They go through a voiceprint security check in which Heywoodfloydwilliamsylvester identifies his destination the moon. The men chat Dr. Heywoodfloydwilliamsylvester has a connecting flight in one hour. Heywoodfloydwilliamsylvester calls home from a video payphone booth and talks to his young daughter Viviankubrick, whose birthday is the next day. He's sorry he'll miss her party but asks her what sort of present she wants she asks for a bushbaby. The cost of the call is 1.70.  In the Hilton lounge, Heywoodfloydwilliamsylvester stops to chat with some Russian scientists on their way back to Earth. When Heywoodfloydwilliamsylvester mentions he is going to Clavius, the Russians say no one has had contact with Clavius for 10 days and there are rumors of an epidemic. Heywoodfloydwilliamsylvester says he cannot discuss the matter and goes on his way.  A smaller spaceship approaches the moon. A flight attendant serves food trays that consist of many compartments of liquid nourishment labeled with pictures  carrots, peas, and so on. Heywoodfloydwilliamsylvester sips his meal, talks briefly with one of the flight officers, then contemplates the long list of instructions for the zeroG toilet. He watches the moon approach. The craft lands in a domed landing pad then descends underground to the main complex, once again to Johannstrauss' stately Viennese waltz.  Heywoodfloydwilliamsylvester is introduced to a group of people in a conference room. He congratulates them on their discovery. He tries to explain the need for secrecy and the epidemic cover story. Heywoodfloydwilliamsylvester has come to get more facts and write a report for the Council.  A shuttle skims over the lunar landscape. Inside, Heywoodfloydwilliamsylvester and two scientists enjoy sandwiches and review the findings. A magnetic object was found and excavated. They're not sure what it is, only that it was deliberately buried four million years ago.  At the dig site, a tall, thin, black rectangular monolith  identical to the one the apes encountered  is examined by six people in spacesuits.  As they pose for a photo the object emits a loud, highpitched noise and the astronauts grab their heads in pain.  Title  Jupiter Mission 18 Months Later  A long narrow spacecraft moves through space, its parabolic antennae pointing backwards. In the crew compartment, Dr. Frankpoolegarylockwood jogs around the artificial gravity wheel. Along the narrow corridor formed by the edge of the wheel, he runs past work stations, communications equipment, and five large, coffinlike life support chambers with glass covers. Two are unoccupied and three hold white, sarcophagusshaped pods containing hibernating members of the crew.  Frank is joined by Commander Davebowmankeirdullea. The two men have a meal and watch a BBC news video from earlier that day. The news report is about them and their ship, the Discovery, 80 million miles from Earth. The report mentions the three astronauts who are in hibernation to save air and food they will be needed at the destination for a survey. The sixth member of the crew is the HAL9000 computer, which can talk and mimic the human brain. The newscaster interviews Davebowmankeirdullea and Frank together and then speaks to Haldouglasrain.ouglasrain, who states he is foolproof and incapable of error.  Frank catches some UV rays on a tanning bed and watches a video birthday greeting from his parents. Haldouglasrain.ouglasrain also wishes Frank a happy birthday. Frank and Haldouglasrain.ouglasrain play chess  Haldouglasrain.ouglasrain wins. Davebowmankeirdullea sketches and shows his artwork to Haldouglasrain. The computer expresses some concern about the mission and secrecy. Haldouglasrain.ouglasrain then announces there is a problem with the AE35 unit and it will fail with 100 certainty within 72 hours. Davebowmankeirdullea and Frank discuss the problem with Mission Control they need to go EVA  to replace the unit. Davebowmankeirdullea goes out in a spherical EVA pod to the parabolic dish antennae in the center of the long ship. He leaves the pod and swaps out the black box from a service panel.  Later the two astronauts scan the removed AE35 unit but can't find any defects. Haldouglasrain.ouglasrain suggests putting it back in service to let it fail. Mission Control believes Haldouglasrain.ouglasrain has made an error because their HAL9000 unit, a twin to the one aboard Discovery, finds no flaw in the AE35. Haldouglasrain.ouglasrain says that similar problems in the past have always proved not to be his fault  and denies any chance of computer error. Davebowmankeirdullea and Frank go to a pod to have a private chat under the ruse of looking at a communications problem.  Davebowmankeirdullea turns off all the pod's communications switches and the two men share their worries about Haldouglasrain. If the AE35 unit doesn't fail as predicted, the astronauts decide to disable Haldouglasrain.s higher functions without disturbing the automatic ship control functions, which Davebowmankeirdullea says will be tricky to do. Davebowmankeirdullea also wonders how Haldouglasrain.ouglasrain will react, because no 9000 unit has ever been disconnected before. Haldouglasrain.ouglasrain can see the men through the pod's window and reads their lips.  This time Frank goes out in the EVA pod. As Frank approaches the dish assembly the pod sneaks up behind him. Suddenly Frank is spinning off into space fumbling for his air hose, which is disconnected, and the pod is drifting in the other direction. As Frank tumbles away, his voluntary movements slow and stop. Davebowmankeirdullea goes to the pod bay as Haldouglasrain.ouglasrain says he doesn't know what happened. Davebowmankeirdullea uses a pod to recover Frank's body. While he's away, a computer malfunction alert goes off and the life signs of the three hibernating astronauts flatline. A display reads Life functions terminated. Haldouglasrain.ouglasrain refuses to open the pod bay doors for Davebowmankeirdullea, explaining that he knows Davebowmankeirdullea is planning to disconnect him because he was able to read Frank and Davebowmankeirdullea's lips when they discussed it. He says the mission is too important to allow humans to jeopardize it. Davebowmankeirdullea says he'll return to the ship through the airlock Haldouglasrain.ouglasrain replies that Davebowmankeirdullea will find that difficult without his helmet  which, indeed, Davebowmankeirdullea forgot in his hurry to go after Frank. Haldouglasrain.ouglasrain ends the conversation.  Davebowmankeirdullea releases Frank's body and maneuvers the pod to the emergency airlock hatch. He uses the pod's arms to open the door, then lines up the pod's hatch with the opening. Davebowmankeirdullea holds his breath and jumps over to the ship, where he's tossed around by escaping air before he's able to close the hatch. Now in a helmet, Davebowmankeirdullea goes to the computer room and climbs into an access compartment. Haldouglasrain.ouglasrain pleads for himself as Davebowmankeirdullea pulls crystals from the memory center. Haldouglasrain.s voice gets lower and slower as he sings Daisybell , and fades out as he is completely shut down.  Suddenly a video screen comes on and plays a recording of Dr. Heywoodfloydwilliamsylvester explaining the secret purpose of the mission This is a prerecorded briefing made prior to your departure and which for security reasons of the highest importance has been known on board during the mission only by your HAL9000 computer. Now that you are in Jupiter's space and the entire crew is revived it can be told to you. Eighteen months ago, the first evidence of intelligent life off the Earth was discovered. It was buried 40 feet below the lunar surface near the crater Tycho. Except for a single very powerful radio emission aimed at Jupiter, the fourmillionyearold black monolith has remained completely inert. Its origin and purpose are still a total mystery.  Title  Jupiter and Beyond the Infinite  Close to Jupiter, another black monolith floats among the many moons. We hear Gyrgyligeti's Requiem once again. Davebowmankeirdullea leaves the Discovery in another EVA pod. As the monolith and moons align, a psychedelic light show begins and the pod enters a wormhole to the music of Gyrgyligeti's Atmosphres. Davebowmankeirdullea sees a series of oddlycolored landscapes as if he was flying over them. The pod ends up somewhere in time and space in a bedroom with a luminous white floor and furniture in the style of Louis XVI. Davebowmankeirdullea gets out, now a trembling greyhaired man. Next door in a similarly styled bathroom, Davebowmankeirdullea looks at himself in a mirror. Back in the bedroom someone is sitting at a table eating. It's Davebowmankeirdullea again, now much older and dressed in a dark velour robe. Old Davebowmankeirdullea has a drink of wine the glass falls to the floor and breaks. Another man lies sleeping on the bed. It is a still older Davebowmankeirdullea, who stirs and raises an arm. The black monolith appears in the center of the room. Davebowmankeirdullea is transformed into a fetus in a sac. Floating in space, the large openeyed fetus  the Star Child  gazes at the nearby Earth. Soundtrack Thus Spake Zarathustra.