Johnnash arrives at Princeton University as a new graduate student. He is a recipient of the prestigious Carnegie Prize for mathematics. Though he was promised a single room, his roommate Charles, a literature student, greets him as he moves in and soon becomes his best friend. Johnnash also meets a group of other promising math and science graduate students, Martinhansen, Sol, Ainsley, and Bender, with whom he strikes up an awkward friendship. Johnnash admits to Charles that he is better with numbers than people, which comes as no surprise to them after watching his largely unsuccessful attempts at conversation with the women at the local bar.  Johnnash is seeking a truly original idea for his thesis paper, and he is under increasing pressure to develop his thesis so he can begin work. A particularly harsh rejection from a woman at the bar is what ultimately inspires his fruitful work in the concept of governing dynamics, a theory in mathematical economics.  After the conclusion of Nashs studies as a student at Princeton, he accepts a prestigious appointment at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , along with his friends Sol and Bender. Russellcrowe as Johnnash. Russellcrowe as Johnnash.  Five years later while teaching a class on Calculus at MIT, he places a particularly interesting problem on the chalkboard that he dares his students to solve. When his student Alicialarde comes to his office to discuss the problem, the two fall in love and eventually marry.  On a return visit to Princeton, Johnnash runs into his former roommate Charles and meets Charles young niece Marcee, whom he adores. He also encounters a mysterious Department of Defense agent, Williamparcher. Johnnash is invited to a secret United States Department of Defense facility in the Pentagon to crack a complex encryption of an enemy telecommunication. Johnnash is able to decipher the code mentally to the astonishment of other codebreakers.  Williamparcher observes Nashs performance from above, while partially concealed behind a screen. Williamparcher gives Johnnash a new assignment to look for patterns in magazines and newspapers, ostensibly to thwart a Soviet plot. He must write a report of his findings and place them in a specified mailbox. After being chased by the Russians and an exchange of gunfire, Johnnash becomes increasingly paranoid and begins to behave erratically.  After observing this erratic behavior, Alicialarde informs a psychiatric hospital. Later, while delivering a guest lecture at Harvard University, Johnnash realizes that he is being watched by a hostile group of people. Although he attempts to flee, he is forcibly sedated and sent to a psychiatric facility. Johnnash's internment seemingly confirms his belief that the Soviets were trying to extract information from him. He views the officials of the psychiatric facility as Soviet kidnappers.  Alicialarde, desperate to help her husband, visits the mailbox and retrieves the neveropened top secret documents that Johnnash had delivered there. When confronted with this evidence, Johnnash is finally convinced that he has been hallucinating. The Department of Defense agent Williamparcher and Johnnash's secret assignment to decode Soviet messages was in fact all a delusion. Even more surprisingly, Johnnash's friend Charles and his niece Marcee are also only products of Johnnash's mind.  After a painful series of insulin shock therapy sessions, Johnnash is released on the condition that he agrees to take antipsychotic medication. However, the drugs create negative sideeffects that affect his relationship with his wife and, most dramatically, his intellectual capacity. Frustrated, Johnnash secretly stops taking his medication and hoards his pills, triggering a relapse of his psychosis.  While bathing his infant son, Johnnash becomes distracted and wanders off. Alicialarde is hanging laundry in the backyard and observes that the back gate is open. She discovers that Johnnash has turned an abandoned shed in a nearby grove of trees into an office for his work for Williamparcher. Upon realizing what has happened, Alicialarde runs into the house to confront Johnnash and barely saves their child from drowning in the bathtub. When she confronts him, Johnnash claims that his friend Charles was watching their son. Alicialarde runs to the phone to call the psychiatric hospital for emergency assistance. Williamparcher urges Johnnash to kill his wife, but Johnnash angrily refuses to do such a thing. After arguing with Williamparcher. Johnnash accidentally knocks Alicialarde to the ground. Afterwards, Alicialarde flees the house in fear with their child, but Johnnash steps in front of her car to prevent her from leaving. After a moment, Johnnash realizes that Marcee is a figment of his hallucinations because she has remained the same age since the day he met her. He tells Alicialarde, She never gets old. Only then does he accept that all three people are, in fact, part of his hallucinations. .  Caught between the intellectual paralysis of the antipsychotic drugs and his delusions, Johnnash and Alicialarde decide to try to live with his abnormal condition. Johnnash consciously says goodbye to the three of them forever in his attempts to ignore his hallucinations and not feed his demons. However, he thanks Charles for being his best friend over the years, and says a tearful goodbye to Marcee, stroking her hair and calling her baby girl, telling them both he wouldn't speak to them anymore.  Johnnash grows older and approaches his old friend and intellectual rival Martinhansen, now head of the Princeton mathematics department, who grants him permission to work out of the library and audit classes, though the university will not provide him with his own office. Though Johnnash still suffers from hallucinations and mentions taking newer medications, he is ultimately able to live with and largely ignore his psychotic episodes. He takes his situation in stride and humorously checks to ensure that any new acquaintances are in fact real people, not hallucinations.  Johnnash eventually earns the privilege of teaching again. He is honored by his fellow professors for his achievement in mathematics, and goes on to win the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics for his revolutionary work on game theory. Johnnash and Alicialarde are about to leave the auditorium in Stockholm, when Johnnash sees Charles, Marcee and Williamparcher standing and smiling. Alicialarde asks Johnnash, What's wrong Johnnash replies, Nothing. With that, they both leave the auditorium.