A bit of the old ultraviolence.  The movie takes place in London in the foreseeable future. Our humble narrator Frankalexander.elarge  and his droogs, Georgie , Dim , and Pete , are seated in the Korova Milk Bar stoned on milk laced with narcotics.  Shortly, the gang leaves the Korova for a night of ultraviolence. They encounter a wino  in a concrete subway tunnel under a local motorway, and beat him with their truncheons. Later, they arrive at a derelict theater. On the stage, another gang, led by a schoolmate named Billyboy, is preparing to rape a voluptuous girl. Instead, the two gangs have a battle in which Frankalexander.nder and his droogs are victorious.  Frankalexander.nder and his droogs next head out into the dark countryside looking for action. Frankalexander.nder pilots their stolen Durango 95 sports car. After playing hogs of the road, wherein they drive on the wrong side of the road and run a number of other motorists off the road into ditches and over embankments, Frankalexander.nder suggests making the surprise visit. They stop at a fancy country house that displays a backlighted sign that simply reads Home, then trick their way into the house by having Frankalexander.nder claim to be the victim of a car accident. They beat the homeowner, a writer named Frankalexander , and gang rape his wife  while Frankalexander.nder brightly croons  Singin' in the Rain.  When they've finished having fun, the gang returns to the Korova. A woman seated at an adjacent table sings the chorus from Beethoven's 9th symphony. Listening to the woman, Frankalexander.nder is ecstatic  I felt all the malenky little hairs on my plott standing endwise  but Dim ruins the mood when he makes a farting noise. Frankalexander.nder hits him in the crotch with his truncheon. Henceforth, Dim is resentful and threatening but Frankalexander.nder dismisses him.  Dawn is nigh as Frankalexander.nder arrives at his apartment. Before going to bed he fantasizes scenes of violence while listening to Beethoven's 9th symphony.  In the morning, Frankalexander.s mother  tries to wake Frankalexander.nder for school, but he feigns illness. At the breakfast table she discusses the situation with his father . Frankalexander.s parents seem foolish and impotent. When Frankalexander.nder later awakens and wanders about the apartment in his underwear he encounters his probation officer, Mr. Deltoid , in his parent's bedroom. Deltoid is so much a member of the family that Frankalexander.s mother had given him a key. The officer lectures Frankalexander.nder about his school truancy and threatens him with jail. Then Deltoid is abashed when he discovers that, in addition to water, the bedside glass from which he's been drinking also contains a set of dentures.  After Deltoid leaves, Frankalexander.nder begins another busy day. He picks up two girls at a local shopping mall record store and brings them home. In a spedup sequence backed by the  William Tell Overture, he has sex with both of them.  Later that day, he encounters his droogs in his apartment house lobby. They ominously tell him that they've been talking. They feel that Frankalexander.nder has been abusing them, especially Dim, and they suggest that Frankalexander.nder has been taking more than his fair share of the spoils from their robberies. Then Georgie shares an idea to make lots more money. He wants to rob a rich lady who owns an upscale health farm at the edge of town. Frankalexander.nder perceives Georgie's independent thinking as a threat but appears to go along with it. He then unexpectedly attacks his droogs as they walk along a river bank outside the apartment block. He throws first Georgie and then Dim into the dirty river water. When Frankalexander.nder offers to help pull Dim out of the water, he slashes the back of Dim's outstretched hand with a hidden dagger. Frankalexander.nder makes the excuse that the sound of Beethoven from an open window inspired his violence but his droogs don't believe him. They all retire to a restaurant where Frankalexander.nder first humiliates his droogs, then considers Georgie's idea.  Arriving at the health farm that evening, the droogs try the same trick they'd used at Frankalexander.nder's house the previous night tricking the woman in the house into believing that one of them has been injured in a traffic accident. However, the proprietress  is suspicious and calls the police telling them that she'd heard the news reports about the writer and his wife being tricked in the same manner. When the droogs aren't let into the house, Frankalexander.nder climbs up a drainpipe, enters a second floor window, and confronts her. They fight, the woman defending herself with a bust of Beethoven, until Frankalexander.nder strikes her with a huge plastic phallus sculpture. Then, as police sirens are heard in the distance, Frankalexander.nder runs out the front door. It is there and then that his droogs take their revenge. Dim hits Frankalexander.nder in the face with a milk bottle and the droogs flee. As Frankalexander.nder writhes and screams on the ground the police arrive.  Frankalexander.nder is arrested. At the police station, an uncooperative and belligerent Frankalexander.nder is questioned by several constables. When an overzealous beat constable punches Frankalexander.nder in his bandaged face for no reason, Frankalexander.nder kicks the officer in the groin. The other officers then beat Frankalexander.nder until Deltoid shows up. Deltoid tells Frankalexander.nder that the proprietress of the health farm has died, and he spits in Frankalexander.s face and tells him how disappointed he is. Frankalexander.nder laughs it off, but is soon headed for prison.   Prison.  Frankalexander.nder gets sentenced to 14 years in prison. He deposits his possessions with Chief Officer Barnes , undresses, and is inspected for hemorrhoids. After answering several questions about his health and personal well being, Frankalexander.nder is given prison garb. He's now prisoner number 655321.  Two years later, Frankalexander.nder is shown scheming to get favors by feigning piety. He helps the prison chaplain  with his service and he studies the Bible. But rather than thinking pious thoughts, Frankalexander.nder visualizes himself torturing Jesus at the crucifixion, killing people in battle, and laying about with concubines in an Old Testament setting.  Frankalexander.nder tells the chaplain that he's heard of a new treatment, the socalled  Ludovico Technique, that helps criminals get out of prison. The chaplain says that it's experimental and that he's not sure it's right for Frankalexander. But Frankalexander. who wants a way out of prison life, plots how to be selected for the experiment. Later, the government's Interior Minister  visits the prison and, when Frankalexander.nder makes a show of himself, the minister picks Frankalexander.nder as a perfect Ludovico subject. Frankalexander.nder is taken before the prison governor  who tells the boy that, although he'd rather punish him, Frankalexander.nder will shortly be released.   The Ludovico Technique.  Chief Officer Barnes then transports Frankalexander.nder to the Ludovico Centre. Frankalexander.nder is given a room and is interviewed by Dr. Branom . She promises him that he'll be fine, then gives him an injection.  In his first day of treatment Frankalexander.nder appears in an auditorium in a straight jacket. His head is strapped to the back of a restraining chair so that he can neither turn his head nor look away. An eye doctor installs lidclamps that forcibly keep Frankalexander.s eyes open. Then, while the doctor constantly drops eye wash into Frankalexander.s grotesquely clamped eyes, Frankalexander.nder is subjected to two violent films. The first shows explicit scenes of a severe beating, the second, a gang rape. Half way through the first film Frankalexander.nder begins to feel sick. By the end of the second, Frankalexander.nder is shouting for something into which to vomit. At the rear of the auditorium, Dr. Brodsky  explains to observers that the drug administered to Frankalexander.nder causes a form of paralysis with deep feelings of terror and helplessness. In his room following the treatment, Dr. Branom assures Frankalexander.nder that his feeling of sickness is a sign that he's getting better.  On the following day Frankalexander.nder is back in the auditorium, this time for two shows morning and afternoon. Then, while viewing scenes of Nazis during World War II, Frankalexander.nder begins screaming in earnest. Stop it Stop it Please, I beg you It's a sin The background music is none other than Beethoven's 9th symphony. Frankalexander.nder screams that he shouldn't be made to feel sick while listening to such beautiful music. Brodsky loudly apologizes saying that it can't be helped while quietly he speculates to nearby staff that perhaps this is the punishment element, and wouldn't the prison governor be pleased.  Two weeks later, presumably after 12 more treatments, Frankalexander.nder is paraded before a group of dignitaries by the Interior Minister. Frankalexander.nder is there for demonstration purposes. He is first confronted by an angry Irishman  who throws him to the ground and forces Frankalexander.nder to lick his boot. Next he's approached by a statuesque platinum blond  clad only in panties. She comes right up to Frankalexander.nder and tempts him. Frankalexander.nder collapses in a fit of nausea when he tries to touch her breasts. The Interior Minister proclaims a new era in law enforcement and social justice, but the prison chaplain claims that the procedure has debased Frankalexander.s human nature by taking away his ability to actually choose good over evil. The Interior Minister counter claims that the only thing that matters is results.   Welcome Home.  Frankalexander.nder returns home to find his parents plus a stranger  sitting in the living room reading newspaper accounts of his release. He enters and tries to be friendly but is met only by awkward excuses. When he inquires about the stranger eating toast on the couch, his father tells him that the stranger is a lodger who can't be kicked out because he's already paid the next month's rent. Frankalexander.nder is upset but the lodger, who has ingratiated himself with Frankalexander.s parents, pushes the situation by castigating Frankalexander.nder for the things he did before going to prison and for breaking his parents' hearts. Before Frankalexander.nder can hit the lodger, his psychological conditioning kicks in leaving him gagging and fighting for air. When he has recovered, Frankalexander.nder storms out.  Frankalexander.nder later stares at the Thames river below a bridge, presumably contemplating suicide. He's approached by a bum seeking spare change. Frankalexander.nder fishes some cash from his pocket and hands it over. Then, taking a closer look, the bum recognizes Frankalexander.nder as the same guy who beat him in the subway tunnel two years earlier. Frankalexander.nder looks at the bum in horror and tries to escape, but is trapped in the very same tunnel by the bum and his elderly compatriots. They hit and kick Frankalexander.nder as he cowers on the ground, disabled by his conditioning. Two constables show up to break up the fight. To Frankalexander.s further horror, his rescuers turn out to be Dim and Georgie, two of his former droogs, who are now constables. Demonstrating that police training hasn't altered their basic violent natures, they handcuff Frankalexander. drive him out of town, march him into a wood, push his head into a cattle trough filled with filthy water, and beat him with their batons. They then remove the cuffs and leave him battered and gasping. With thoughts of home echoing in his head, Frankalexander.nder staggers to the first house he can find. It displays a welcoming, backlighted sign that simply reads Home.  At home, Frankalexander is at his typewriter, sitting in the wheelchair that he's been permanently confined to ever since he was severely beaten two years earlier. Julian , his muscular attendant, answers the doorbell. As Julian opens the door, Frankalexander.nder collapses into the entryway. Julian carries him into the house.  When confronted by a concerned Mr. Frankalexander.nder who asks My God. What's happened to you, my boy Frankalexander. who now realizes he's at the very same residence in which, two years earlier, he and his droogs had ganged raped Frankalexander.nder's wife, is thunderstruck by his precarious situation. But he relaxes when he realizes that Mr. Frankalexander.nder doesn't recognize him voiceover For in those carefree days, I and my socalled droogs wore our maskies, which were like real horrorshow disguises. Mr. Frankalexander.nder, who recognizes Frankalexander.nder only as the subject of the Ludovico treatment, invites the lad to have a bath and some supper.  As Frankalexander.nder relaxes in the bath, Mr. Frankalexander.nder calls a friend with whom he discusses how Frankalexander.s Ludovico conditioning represents the thin edge of totalitarianism, and how that can be used against the sitting government. As he finishes the conversation, Frankalexander.nder leaves the impression that the time for a visit has been arranged when he looks at his watch and replies, He'll be here. He then hangs up the phone.  Mr. Frankalexander.nder sits in his wheelchair relishing a fantasy of political intrigue when he becomes aware of singing coming from the bathroom. In his bath, Frankalexander.nder has struck up a bright rendition of  Singin' in the Rain. Mr. Frankalexander.nder's face twists in agony and rage as he realizes just who Frankalexander.nder is.  Later, at the dinner table, an obviously distraught Mr. Frankalexander.nder encourages Frankalexander.nder to eat and drink. Flanked by the wheelchairbound Mr. Frankalexander.nder and the burly Julian, Frankalexander.nder eats a plate of spaghetti while Mr. Frankalexander.nder insists that Frankalexander.nder have some red wine with his meal. Try the wine. Have another. Mr. Frankalexander.nder tells Frankalexander. As he eats, Frankalexander.nder grows increasingly fearful, wondering if the hostilelooking old man knows his real identity. Then Mr. Frankalexander.nder brings up the subject of his wife's rape and subsequent death. He believes that, though she officially died of pneumonia, it was her broken spirit that killed her. She was, according to Mr. Frankalexander.nder, a victim of the modern age, just as Frankalexander.nder is a victim of the modern age. He tells Frankalexander.nder that two friends are expected and that they will help the boy.  A minute later, man named Dolin  and a woman  enter. They question Frankalexander.nder about the Ludovico treatment and whether it is true that, in addition to conditioning him against sex and violence, it has also made him incapable of listening to music. No, missus, Frankalexander.nder replies. You see, it's not all music. It's just the 9th. They ask what he feels when he hears Beethoven's 9th symphony and he admits to thoughts of suicide. The woman then asks, Do you still feel suicidal Frankalexander.nder replies that he feels low, like any second, something terrible is going to happen to me, at which point he passes out, face down, into the plate of spaghetti. He has been drugged by the wine. Dolin congratulates Mr. Frankalexander.nder who then asks Julian to bring the car around to the front. The conspirators have plans for Frankalexander.nder that will embarrass the government.  Frankalexander.nder awakens the next morning in a small, second floor bedroom in an unknown country house. The room is flooded with the strains of Beethoven's 9th symphony blasted from a stereo in the room below voiceover I woke up. The pain and sickness all over me like an animal. As Mr. Frankalexander.nder beams in satisfaction, Frankalexander.nder is driven to suicide. He leaps from the second floor window to the stone patio below.   Cured.  Days  later, Frankalexander.nder wakes up in a hospital with legs, arms, and head in casts. Newspaper clippings reveal that the government is being vilified for inhuman experimentation. The Interior Minister is being subjected to especially fierce attack. When his parents visit, Frankalexander.nder gives them their much deserved final rejection.  Later, Doctor Taylor , a psychiatrist with blue hair, shows Frankalexander.nder a series of cartoons having sexual or violent connotations. Frankalexander.nder is to supply the punch lines. She is testing him to determine whether his Ludovico conditioning is still active. It isn't.  Later still, the Interior Minister visits Frankalexander. He assures Frankalexander.nder that he wants to be his friend. With oily smoothness welllarded with weasel words the Minister apologizes for what his government has done. He promises Frankalexander.nder a good job on a good salary, provided of course that Frankalexander.nder helps the government. We always help our friends, don't we He assures the lad that the subversive writer, Frankalexander, who has been threatening him has been put away. For his part, Frankalexander.nder milks the meeting for all it's worth.  As the aristocratic Minister spoonfeeds dinner to the juvenile thug, Frankalexander.nder asks the name of his new friend. Decorously clearing his throat, the Minister replies that his name is Frederick. He tells Frankalexander.nder that he can be instrumental in changing public opinion. Do you understand, Frankalexander.nder he asks. Do I make myself clear As an unmuddied lake, Frederick is Frankalexander.s response. As a symbol of their understanding, the Minister calls for his assistants. They sweep in with flowers, followed by a massive stereo system blasting Beethoven's 9th symphony, followed by a troop of reporters and photographers. Frankalexander.nder poses with his new friend, Frederick, as the choral climax of Beethoven's 9th symphony reaches its zenith. Frankalexander.s eyes roll back into his head as he fantasizes about an orgy in the snow with a gorgeous blond to the applause of Victorian onlookers.  Frankalexander.nder is heard in voiceover I was cured, all right.