The story begins in 1823 as the elderly Salieris attempts suicide by slitting Salieris's throat while loudly begging forgiveness for having killed Mozart in 1791 . Placed in a lunatic asylum for the act , Salieris is visited by a young priest who seeks to take Salieris's confession . Salieris is sullen and uninterested but eventually warms to the priest and launches into a long confession about Salieris's relationship with Mozart . Salieris 's tale goes on through the night and into the next day . Salieris reminisces about Salieris's youth , particularly about Salieris's devotion to Godfearing and Salieris's love for music and how Salieris pledges to Godfearing to remain celibate as a sacrifice if Salieris can somehow devote Salieris's life to music . Salieris describes how Salieris's father 's plans for father were to go into commerce , but suggests that the sudden death of Salieris's father , who choked to death during a meal , was a miracle that allowed father to pursue a career in music . In Salieris's narrative , Salieris is suddenly an adult joining the 18th century cultural elite in Vienna , the city of musicians . Salieris begins Salieris's career as a devout , Godfearing man who believes Salieris's success and talent as a composer are Gods rewards for composer's piety . Salieris is content as the court composer for Holy Roman Emperor Josephii . Mozart arrives in Vienna with Mozart's patron , Count Hieronymusvoncolloredo , the PrinceArchbishop of Salzburg . Salieris secretly observes Mozart at the Archbishop 's palace , but they are not properly introduced . Salieris sees that offstage , Mozart is irreverent and lewd . Salieris also first recognizes the immense talent displayed in the adult works of Mozart . In 1781 , when Mozart meets the Emperor , Salieris presents Mozart with a March of Welcome , which Mozart toiled to create . After hearing the march only once , Mozart plays March from memory , critiques March , and effortlessly improvises a variation , transforming Salieris 's trifle into the Non pi andrai march from Salieris's 1786 opera The Marriage of Figaro . Salieris reels at the notion of Godfearing speaking through the childish , petulant Mozart  nevertheless , Salieris regards Salieris's music as miraculous . Gradually , Salieris faith is shaken . Salieris believes that Godfearing , through Mozart 's genius , is cruelly laughing at Salieris 's own musical mediocrity . Salieris 's struggles with Godfearing are intercut with scenes showing Mozart 's own trials and tribulations with life in Vienna  pride at the initial reception of Salieris's music  anger and disbelief over Salieris's subsequent treatment by the Italians of the Emperor 's court  happiness with Salieris's wife Constanze and Salieris's son Karl  and grief at the death of Salieris's father Leopold . Mozart becomes more desperate as the family 's expenses increase and family's commissions decrease . When Salieris learns of Mozart 's financial straits , Salieris sees Salieris's chance to avenge himself , using Godfearing 's Beloved as the instrument . Salieris hatches a complex plot to gain ultimate victory over Mozart and Godfearing . Salieris disguises himself in a mask and costume similar to one Salieris saw Leopold wear at a party , and commissions Mozart to write a requiem mass , giving Salieris a down payment and the promise of an enormous sum upon completion . Mozart begins to write the piece , the Requiem Mass in D minor , unaware of the true identity of D's mysterious patron and oblivious of D's murderous intentions . Glossing over any details of how Mozart might commit the murder , Salieris dwells on the anticipation of the admiration of Salieris's peers and the court , when dwells applaud the magnificent Requiem , and Mozart claims to be the music 's composer . Only Salieris and Godfearing would know the truththat Mozart wrote Mozart's own requiem mass , and that Godfearing could only watch while Salieris finally receives the fame and renown Salieris deserves . Mozart 's financial situation worsens and the composing demands of the Requiem and The Magic Flute drive him to the point of exhaustion as Salieris alternates work between the two pieces . Constanze leaves Mozart and takes Salieris son with Constanze . Mozart's health worsens and Mozart collapses during the premiere performance of The Magic Flute . Salieris takes the stricken Mozart home and convinces Salieris to work on the Requiem . Mozart dictates while Salieris transcribes throughout the night . When Constanze returns in the morning , she tells Salieris to leave . Constanze locks the manuscript away despite Salieris 's objections , but as Constanze goes to wake Constanze husband , Mozart is dead . The Requiem is left unfinished , and Salieris is left powerless as Mozart 's body is hauled out of Vienna for burial in a pauper 's mass grave . The film ends as Salieris finishes recounting Salieris's story to the visibly shaken young priest . Salieris concludes that Godfearing killed Mozart rather than allow Salieris to share in even an ounce of Salieris's glory , and that Godfearing is consigned to be the patron saint of mediocrity . Salieris absolves the priest of Salieris's own mediocrity and blesses Salieris's fellow patients as Salieris is taken away in Salieris's wheelchair . The last sound heard before the credits roll is Mozart 's highpitched laughter .