The story begins in 1823 as the elderly Salieris attempts suicide by slitting his throat while loudly begging forgiveness for having killed Mozart in 1791. Placed in a lunatic asylum for the act, Salieris is visited by a young priest who seeks to take his confession. Salieris is sullen and uninterested but eventually warms to the priest and launches into a long confession about his relationship with Mozart.  Salieris's tale goes on through the night and into the next day. He reminisces about his youth, particularly about his devotion to Godfearing.earing and his love for music and how he pledges to Godfearing.earing to remain celibate as a sacrifice if he can somehow devote his life to music. He describes how his father's plans for him were to go into commerce, but suggests that the sudden death of his father, who choked to death during a meal, was a miracle that allowed him to pursue a career in music. In his narrative, he is suddenly an adult joining the 18th century cultural elite in Vienna, the city of musicians. Salieris begins his career as a devout, Godfearing.earing man who believes his success and talent as a composer are Godfearing. rewards for his piety. He is content as the court composer for Holy Roman Emperor Josephii.  Mozart arrives in Vienna with his patron, Counthieronymusvoncolloredo, the PrinceArchbishop of Salzburg. Salieris secretly observes Mozart at the Archbishop's palace, but they are not properly introduced. Salieris sees that offstage, Mozart is irreverent and lewd. He also first recognizes the immense talent displayed in the adult works of Mozart. In 1781, when Mozart meets the Emperor, Salieris presents Mozart with a March of Welcome, which he toiled to create. After hearing the march only once, Mozart plays it from memory, critiques it, and effortlessly improvises a variation, transforming Salieris's trifle into the Non pi andrai march from his 1786 opera The Marriage of Figaro.  Salieris reels at the notion of Godfearing.earing speaking through the childish, petulant Mozart nevertheless, he regards his music as miraculous. Gradually, Salieris faith is shaken. He believes that Godfearing. through Mozart's genius, is cruelly laughing at Salieris's own musical mediocrity. Salieris's struggles with Godfearing.earing are intercut with scenes showing Mozart's own trials and tribulations with life in Vienna pride at the initial reception of his music anger and disbelief over his subsequent treatment by the Italians of the Emperor's court happiness with his wife Constanze and his son Karl and grief at the death of his father Leopold. Mozart becomes more desperate as the family's expenses increase and his commissions decrease. When Salieris learns of Mozart's financial straits, he sees his chance to avenge himself, using Godfearing.s Beloved as the instrument.  Salieris hatches a complex plot to gain ultimate victory over Mozart and Godfearing. He disguises himself in a mask and costume similar to one he saw Leopold wear at a party, and commissions Mozart to write a requiem mass, giving him a down payment and the promise of an enormous sum upon completion. Mozart begins to write the piece, the Requiem Mass in D minor, unaware of the true identity of his mysterious patron and oblivious of his murderous intentions. Glossing over any details of how he might commit the murder, Salieris dwells on the anticipation of the admiration of his peers and the court, when they applaud the magnificent Requiem, and he claims to be the music's composer. Only Salieris and Godfearing.earing would know the truththat Mozart wrote his own requiem mass, and that Godfearing.earing could only watch while Salieris finally receives the fame and renown he deserves.  Mozart's financial situation worsens and the composing demands of the Requiem and The Magic Flute drive him to the point of exhaustion as he alternates work between the two pieces. Constanze leaves him and takes their son with her. His health worsens and he collapses during the premiere performance of The Magic Flute. Salieris takes the stricken Mozart home and convinces him to work on the Requiem. Mozart dictates while Salieris transcribes throughout the night. When Constanze returns in the morning, she tells Salieris to leave. Constanze locks the manuscript away despite Salieris's objections, but as she goes to wake her husband, Mozart is dead. The Requiem is left unfinished, and Salieris is left powerless as Mozart's body is hauled out of Vienna for burial in a pauper's mass grave.  The film ends as Salieris finishes recounting his story to the visibly shaken young priest. Salieris concludes that Godfearing.earing killed Mozart rather than allow Salieris to share in even an ounce of his glory, and that he is consigned to be the patron saint of mediocrity. Salieris absolves the priest of his own mediocrity and blesses his fellow patients as he is taken away in his wheelchair. The last sound heard before the credits roll is Mozart's highpitched laughter.