In the opening scene, we see waves crashing over a beach which eventually changes to a car driving by various stores. We next see a young teen boy Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong trying to sleep but can't due to his older brother Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton and his girlfriend Staceyfairuzabalk having loud sex in the next bedroom. A car drives by with three black men inside. The car stops outside Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong and Derekedwardnorton.s house. It then shows Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton is caressing Stacy's naked body, Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong is then slowing turning in his sleep. The three black men slowly get out of their car. One goes over to Derekedwardnorton.s truck and the other by his house. The one black man then smashes Derekedwardnorton.s truck window awaking Dannyedwardfurlong. Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton and Staceyfairuzabalk are then seen in yet another sexual position, her moaning becoming faster. Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong slowly gets up and peers out from his bedroom window. He sees the man that broke Derekedwardnorton.s truck window inside looking around. This startles Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong so he runs into his brother's room to find Staceyfairuzabalk riding Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton in the cowgirl position. Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong tells Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton what he witnessed but this startles Staceyfairuzabalk and Derekedwardnorton. Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton asks Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong how long the man has been there and if he is strapped, Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong says that he doesn't know. Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton takes a pistol out of a nightstand drawer. He then goes down to the middle of the stairs with Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong following him. Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton tells Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong to stay put. Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton then goes to the door and peers out of the peephole. He then kicks the door in and shoots the one black man twice. The man falls down. The other black man makes a run for it but Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton fires three shots from his gun hitting the man with two of them. The other is uninjured and takes off in Derekedwardnorton.s truck. Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton fires multiple shots at the truck breaking the back window. Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong looks down and sees the black man injured from the gunshot wounds. Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton then stars to angrily walk toward him, his arm raised as if to gun whip him.  In present time, we see Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong is now sitting in the principal's office, waiting to be summoned. As we move into the office, we hear and see Dannyedwardfurlong.s history teacher, Mr. Murrayelliotgould, explaining to the principal, Dr. Robertsweeneyaverybrooks, that Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong wrote a book report on Meinkampf, Hitler's autobiography that details his antiSemitic beliefs. Murrayelliotgould tells Dr. Robertsweeneyaverybrooks that he is offended by Dannyedwardfurlong.s gesture and he wants to see him punished. Instead, Robertsweeneyaverybrooks asks Murrayelliotgould to leave and asks Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong to step in. With an American flag toothpick hanging from his mouth, Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong steps into the office and sits down. Dr. Robertsweeneyaverybrooks begins yelling at Dannyedwardfurlong. telling him that writing what he did is offensive and he only did it because his brother influenced him in that way. Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong argues of course but in the end Robertsweeneyaverybrooks wins and tells him that he is now his new history teacher. The class is called American History X and the next assignment is due tomorrow morning a paper on his brother, Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton, who is currently incarcerated. The next scene opens in the school bathroom with three black boys beating up a white boy for telling the teacher that one of them cheated. Suddenly, Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong appears out of one of the stalls and demands that they stop. One boy, Henry, argues with him but Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong simply blows the smoke from his cigarette into his face. The boys leave, Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong helps the white kid from the ground and tells him that he needs to learn to stand up for himself and they leave. Soon we see Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong walking home from school through a park where some black men are playing basketball one is Henry. We hear Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong begin to narrate the scene and we learn that before Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton went to jail the white kids in the neighborhood didn't have to be afraid of the black kids because Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton made the area safe.  The next scenes are flashbacks explaining Derekedwardnorton.s journey from a suburban white kid to a vengeanceseeking white supremacist. When Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong and Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton were younger, a black drug dealer shot their father, an LA firefighter, while he was doing his job. Soon after that, a middleaged white supremacist, Cameronalexanderstacykeach, sought out Derekedwardnorton. hoping to begin a new movement throughout the suburban white youth culture. Cameron convinced Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton that what happened to his father was an act of racism by the black man and it wasn't right and he, or any other white kid, shouldn't be scared. Derekedwardnorton. a natural leader and brilliant orator, began rounding up scared suburban white kids for his new gang and telling them that there was nothing to be afraid of anymore. This new craze became so popular among the kids of Venice Beach that Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton soon became an icon. His legacy started then and continued even throughout the time he spent in jail. The night Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton was arrested, three young Black men were trying to break into his car. Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong hears them and informs his brother. Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton rushed downstairs, gun in hand, and opened the door and began shooting the men. Killing two of the three, Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton then demanded the last man to put his upper teeth on the curb and not move. He then ruthlessly kills him by stomping on the back of his head. Almost immediately after, the police arrive and take Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton away, who submits to them without a fight. As he's handcuffed, Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong sees that Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton has a very telling smile on his face. Later, while Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong attempts to type Robertsweeneyaverybrooks's assignment, he reflects on the fact that if he'd been called into court to testify against his brother, his brother would have been convicted of first degree murder and drawn a much harsher sentence.  In jail, Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton tries to find a group of people to hang out with as protection from the Hispanic and black prisoners. Not too long after arriving, he finds a group of white supremacists that accept him. As time went by, Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton noticed and starts to realize the compromises men made to stay ahead in the jail  because the supremacists were a minority, they paid a nonwhite gang to keep them safe. When he learned that a fellow white supremacist was doing favors for a Mexican man, he became enraged and stopped interacting with the group. Later, Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton was assigned laundry duty with a black inmate named Lamont. Lamont was friendly toward Derekedwardnorton. but Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton was not friendly back, at first. Soon Lamont and Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton began to befriend each other and became good acquaintances. Angered that Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton had befriended a black inmate and seemed to be abandoning them, the gang attacks him in the shower, one of them raping him. The day this happened, Dr. Robertsweeneyaverybrooks, who was also Derekedwardnorton.s teacher, came to visit him. As soon as he arrived, Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton broke down in tears and told Robertsweeneyaverybrooks that he wanted out and that he wanted to take everything back and move as far away as possible so he wouldn't hurt his family anymore. Dr. Robertsweeneyaverybrooks told Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton that it wasn't enough Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong was headed down the same path and he must do whatever was necessary for Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong to not end up like him. Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton agreed and told him that he was ready to do anything for his brother once he was out.  After about three years, Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton is released from prison and returns home to find that Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong has become a white supremacist as well. He also learns that what was once a small following has turned into a considerably large one due to Cameron's influence and Derekedwardnorton.s legend. That night, Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong and Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton both go to a party that Cameron is throwing for Derekedwardnorton.s homecoming. Once there, he finds his old girlfriend, Staceyfairuzabalk, and asks her to move far away with him. He tells her that he doesn't want any of this anymore, he's done with white supremacy. Following that, she asks him if he's crazy and runs off in anger. Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton looks for Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong and finally finds him in Cameron's office. Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton tells Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong to leave and that there is a girl outside waiting for him. After Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong leaves, Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton confronts Cameron and tells him that he's done with the whole white supremacist thing and he knows Cameron's game  Cameron had once rolled over on a couple of his own men and let them go to jail. Cameron is infuriated and they start to argue. The argument ends when Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton punches Cameron in the face and then kicks him again while he's down. Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton leaves and calls for Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong to come with him. On his way out, Sethryanethansuplee, a friend of Derekedwardnorton.s before he went to jail, starts yelling at him and demanding an answer as to what happened to Cameron. Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton is befuddled and keeps yelling for Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong but then Sethryanethansuplee pulls out a gun and points it at Derekedwardnorton. Staceyfairuzabalk begins to yell from the side, Shoot him Shoot him and Sethryanethansuplee continues to get closer and closer. Just as Sethryanethansuplee is about to do it, Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton grabs the gun and points it up then pushes him and tells him to step away. Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton calls Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong and starts to run away, gun in hand.  Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong soon catches up to him and Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton begins to explain his life in prison amp his change in attitude. Even though Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong is frustrated with Derekedwardnorton. because he's giving up the only thing he thinks brings the white kids hope against the nonwhite race, he understands and forgives him and they walk home. When they arrive, Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong begins working on his paper and Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton enters the room. They both look at each other and move toward the wall that is covered in white supremacist propaganda they take everything down. When they're done, Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong returns to the computer to write his paper and Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton gets into the shower. The following morning, at sunrise, Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong is narrator, telling us the end to his story. He says that he's never watched the sunrise before and he hopes that this paper is what he, Dr. Robertsweeneyaverybrooks, is looking for. Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton gets ready for his meeting with his probation officer and soon they leave together. Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton walks Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong to school before his meeting, and on their way they stop at a Caf. There, they meet up with Dr. Robertsweeneyaverybrooks and Captain Rasmussen. They tell Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton that Cameron and Sethryanethansuplee were found last night after being jumped and they are now in the hospital. Dr. Robertsweeneyaverybrooks and Rasmussen both ask Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton if he knows anything about it and he swears he doesn't. Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton tells them that he has somewhere to go and that he's going to walk Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong to school before he goes. They set off on their way. As Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton is dropping him off, he staggers over words and finally says I'll see you at home. Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong departs for the front doors and Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton heads down the street. While he's walking, the audience can sense the fear in Derekedwardnorton. At the same time, Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong enters the bathroom just before class starts. What Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong doesn't know is that Henry is in the bathroom as well. He raises a gun and shoots Dannyedwardfurlong.dwardfurlong a number of times as blood spatters against the bathroom stall, he falls to the ground lifeless.  Next we see Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton is in the bathroom with Dannyedwardfurlong. He sits with him and holds his body close to his, extremely distraught. The only things we can hear between sobs are the remarks Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton is making to himself about what he's done. Immediately after, Dannyedwardfurlong.s voice takes over as narrator and we hear the closing statement of the paper he's written about his brother  So I guess this is where I tell you what I learned  my conclusion, right Well, my conclusion is Hate is baggage. Life's too short to be pissed off all the time. It's just not worth it. Derekedwardnorton.dwardnorton says it's always good to end a paper with a quote. He says someone else has already said it best. So if you can't top it, steal from them and go out strong. So I picked a guy I thought you'd like. 'We are not enemies, but friends. We must not be enemies. Though passion may have strained, it must not break our bonds of affection. The mystic chords of memory will swell when again touched, as surely they will be, by the better angels of our nature.'  We see an image of Venice Beach as waves crash over the sunset, then the credits start to roll.