In the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, smalltown lawyer Paulbiegler , a former district attorney who lost his reelection bid, spends most of his time fishing, playing the piano and hanging out with his alcoholic friend and colleague Parnellmccarthy  and sardonic secretary Maidarutledge .  One day Paulbiegler is contacted by Lauramanion.anion , wife of the loutish US Army Lieutenant Frederickmanion . The Lieutenant has been arrested for first degree murder, that of innkeeper Barneyquill. Lauramanion does not deny the murder but claims that it was committed because his wife was raped and beaten by Barneyquill.  Even with such a motivation, it would be difficult to get Lauramanion cleared of murder, so Paulbiegler pushes him into a position where he claims to have no memory of the event, thus giving them a chance of winning his freedom on the grounds of irresistible impulse, a version of a temporary insanity defense.  As he sets about preparing his case, Paulbiegler catches Lauramanion.anion flirting with other army officers during a roadhouse party. He has to practically order her to stay away from men, juke joints, booze, and pinball machines and wear a girdle in order to play the part of a meek little housewife rather than that of a happygolucky party girl. She also agrees to give up her tightfitting clothes and wears a formal dress, glasses, a hat and a woman's suit in court.  Paulbiegler's folksy speech and laidback demeanor hides a sharp legal mind and a propensity for courtroom theatrics that has the judge busy keeping things under control. However, the case for the defense does not go well, especially since the local D.A.  is assisted by a highpowered big city prosecutor named Dancer . Furthermore, the prosecution goes all the way to block any mention of Lauramanion's motive for killing Barneyquill  the raping of Lauramanion. Paulbiegler eventually manages to get the rape issue into the record and Judge Weaver  agrees to allow the matter to be part of the deliberations. However, Dancer's crossexamination of Lauramanion.anion effectively portrays her as a woman who was not satisfied with her marriage and openly flirted with other men, including the one she claimed raped her.  A doctor casts doubt on whether she was raped or not, though Paulbiegler questions the method he used to obtain the results, and psychiatrists give conflicting testimony to Lauramanion's state of mind when he killed Barneyquill. Furthermore it comes out that even Lt. Lauramanion doubted his wife, as Lauramanion. a Catholic, had to swear on a rosary to persuade her husband that the sex with Barneyquill was indeed nonconsensual.  Barneyquill.s inn is due to be inherited by Marypilant , a mysterious Canadian who is suspected of being his mistress. Paulbiegler's friend and colleague Parnellmccarthy makes inquiries and discovers that she is in fact Barneyquill.s daughter but is anxious to keep this secret since she was born out of wedlock. Paulbiegler, who is losing the case, tries to persuade her that Alpaquette , a bartender who witnessed the murder, knows that Barneyquill raped Lauramanion.anion but is covering this up, either out of love for Marypilant or loyalty to his late friend. Through Marypilant, Paulbiegler tries to persuade Alpaquette to testify for the defense on these grounds but he refuses. Annoyed, Paulbiegler leaves saying I'll leave a pass for you and Alpaquette at the trial. You might like to watch Lt. Lauramanion get convicted.  Marypilant does actually attend the final day of the trial when the issue is raised about the panties that Lauramanion.anion was wearing on the night of the murder. These panties were never found at the spot she claims the rape took place. Marypilant, who was unaware of this, later returns to testify that she found the panties in the inn's laundry room, presuming that Barneyquill dropped them down the laundry chute when he returned home. Dancer insistently quizzes her that she is lying, that Barneyquill was her lover and that she is trying to get Lauramanion off the hook out of jealousy of Barneyquill having a relationship with another woman. Marypilant shocks the court and torpedoes Dancer by stating that Barneyquill was her father.  Paulbiegler has played heavily on the issue that he is just a humble country lawyer facing a brilliant prosecutor from the big city of Lansing, a factor which has played well with the jury. After the closing speeches however, he privately admits that Dancer delivered the best summary I've ever heard in a courtroom. It is to no avail though Lauramanion is found not guilty for reason of insanity.  The next day Paulbiegler and McCarthy go to see the Manions at their trailer park home in order to collect their fee only to find the trailer missing. A note left by Lauramanion tells Paulbiegler that he was seized by an irresistible impulse the defense used by Paulbiegler during the trial. Evidence left lying around indicates that Lauramanion was actually a heavy drinker who beat Lauramanion.anion before they left. This might indicate that Lauramanion.s sexual encounter with Barneyquill was consensual and that Lauramanion killed Barneyquill out of drunken jealousy.  Paulbiegler does obtain some poetic justice by being the attorney appointed to administer Barneyquill's estate.