The title logo appears on a black background. The scene opens in Dr. Emmettbrown's Christopherlloyd garagehome laboratory as the camera pan over a large collection of clocks. A robotic tin can opener opens a tin of spoiled dog food and empties the contents into an overflowing dog food bowl marked Einstein. The television set and radio turn on. On the TV, we see the ending of an advertisement, followed by a woman newscaster announcing the recent theft of a case of plutonium.  The front door of the garage opens, and Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj. Fox comes in. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj calls out, then reaches down to partly lift up the doormat. He places a set of keys under the doormat, then drops it back down. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj enters the garage, calling out for Doc and whistling for Einstein. He comments on the mess the place is in.  Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj puts down his skateboard and it rolls along the floor until it hits a hidden box of plutonium. He turns on Doc's amplifier system, turning all the settings to maximum. A hum grows louder in the background. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj plugs his electric guitar into a huge amplifier, pauses, and then plucks a string. The amplifier blows up, the impact throwing Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj back against a bookshelf, which falls, causing the books and papers on it to fall off and land on his head. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj lifts up his sunglasses and we finally get to see his face.  Whoa. rock and roll, he says, when a loud ringing fills the garage. It sounds like a fire alarm, but then turns out to be just the telephone. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj scrambles off the ground and answers it. It's Doc, who asks Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj to meet him that night at the Twin Pines Mall at 115 a.m. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj asks him where he's been all week. Doc says that he has been working. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj tells him that his equipment had been left on all week. Remembering, Doc tells Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj not to hook up to the amplifier. There's a slight possibility of overload, he says. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj glances at the destroyed amplifier, and says that he'll keep that in mind.  Just then, every single one of the numerous clocks go off at once, chiming loudly, and Doc asks about them. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj tells him that it's eight o'clock. Doc is elated at the information, as it means that his experiment has worked and all his clocks are 25 minutes slowmeaning it really is 825, and Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj is late for school. He exclaims this news into the telephone, slams down the receiver, retrieves his skateboard and rushes out of the garage. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj gets on his skateboard and skates through the streets, hitching a ride first on a pickup truck and then on another Jeep to get through town.  Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj arrives outside Hill Valley High School. He hops off his skateboard and flips it up into his hand. His girlfriend Jenniferparkerclaudiawells.arkerclaudiawells is waiting for him. She warns him that the principal, Mr. Strickland  is looking for him. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj tells her that his lateness is not his fault, because Doc set his clocks slow. Strickland suddenly appears at the sound of Doc's name. He demands to know if Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj is still hanging around with Doc, and hands him and Jenniferparkerclaudiawells.arkerclaudiawells a tardy slip each it is Martymcflymichaelj.s fourth in a row. Strickland warns Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj that Doc is a dangerous nutcase, and if he continues hanging out with him, he'll get in trouble. Strickland also harshly tells Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj that he is a slacker, just like his father. No McFly ever amounted to anything in the history of Hill Valley he says, bringing his face closer to Martymcflymichaelj.s until their noses touch. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj counters that history will be changing soon.  We change to the auditorium, where a band has just finished playing. Four judges sit on chairs before the stage and request the next band. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj and his band get up on stage and he introduces them as The Pinheads before launching into the opening bars of The Power of Love. One of the judges  cuts them off and tells them that they are too loud.  After school, Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj and Jenniferparkerclaudiawells.arkerclaudiawells are walking through the Courthouse Square as a mayoral campaign van drives past, blaring Reelect Mayor Goldiewilson over its loudspeakers. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj tells Jenniferparkerclaudiawells.arkerclaudiawells about how he doubts he'll ever get anywhere with his music. Jenniferparkerclaudiawells.arkerclaudiawells tries to reassure him with her opinion that he's really good, and encourages him to send in his audition tape to the record company, but Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj expresses fear that they'll reject him. He looks up as a new 4x4 Toyota pickup truck is delivered to the Statler Toyota dealership across the street, and admires it, musing about taking Jenniferparkerclaudiawells.arkerclaudiawells in it for a weekend trip to the lake. Jenniferparkerclaudiawells.arkerclaudiawells asks if Martymcflymichaelj.s mother knows about their plans for the next night. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj assures her that his mother thinks he's going camping with the guys, and that she would freak out if she knew the truth. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj fears his mother was probably born a nun. Jenniferparkerclaudiawells.arkerclaudiawells assures him that she's just trying to keep him respectable. Their lips come closer, but just as they are about to kiss, a tin can is shoved in their faces by a woman shouting Save the clock tower Save the clock tower The woman asks them to deposit money that will be contributed to a fund to save the clock tower, which has been frozen at 1004 ever since it was struck by lightning at that exact time on the night of November 12, 1955. The mayor would like the clock to be replaced, the Hill Valley Preservation Society thinks that it is important part of their heritage and should be left alone. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj gives her a quarter just to get her to go away. She thanks him and hands him a flyer, before going off to target more unsuspecting passersby.  Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj and Jenniferparkerclaudiawells. now rid of the collection lady, are about to kiss when a car pulls up and beeps its horn loudly. It's Jenniferparkerclaudiawells.s father, coming to pick her up. Jenniferparkerclaudiawells.arkerclaudiawells hastily scribbles her number on the back of the clock tower flyer with Love You next to that. She gets into the car. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj looks at the back of the flyer. He smiles.  Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj gets back on his skateboard and grabs a police car to tail behind. He makes his way back to his home neighborhood, Lyon Estates. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj lets go of another car and skims down this opening towards his house.  As Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj rides up to his house, he passes a wrecked BMW sedan being pushed back into the driveway by a tow truck. Inside, Martymcflymichaelj.s father Georgebrun.cflycrispinglover is arguing with his supervisor Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf. Goldiewilson. Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf is exasperated that Georgebrun.run loaned him a car without warning him that it had a blind spot, leading him to have a headon collision with another vehicle. Georgebrun.run insists that he never knew the car had a blind spot. He sees Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj and gives him a weak greeting, as Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf demands to know who is going to pay for his cleaning bill, seeing as he spilled beer all over his coattails. Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf then asks Georgebrun.run if he's finished filling out Bifftannenthomasf.s reports. When Georgebrun.run admits he hasn't done them yet, an annoyed Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf taps him several times on the head, reminding Georgebrun.run that he needs time to retype them because he'll be fired if he hands in his reports in Georgebrun.s handwriting. He expresses despair that all they've got in the fridge is light beer, and helps himself to a beer before leaving. After Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf leaves, Georgebrun.run hesitantly admits to Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj that he isn't good at confrontations. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj asks about the car, which he had been planning to drive up to the lake with Jenniferparkerclaudiawells. Georgebrun.run apologizes.  The whole of the McFly family later sits down to dinner  Georgebrun. his wife Lorraineleathompson.eathompson, and their children Martymcflymichaelj. Davemarcmcclure and Lindawendiejosperber. Lorraineleathompson.eathompson drops a thin cake onto the table. It says 'Welcome Home, Joey', next to a picture of a bird flying out of jail. Uncle 'Jailbird' Joey has failed to make parole, again. Lindawendiejosperber chides that he's an embarrassment to the family. Lorraineleathompson.eathompson reminds her that everyone makes mistakes in life.  Having enough of the conversation, Davemarcmcclure leaves for his job as a Burger King cashier, while Lindawendiejosperber tells Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj that Jenniferparkerclaudiawells.arkerclaudiawells called asking for him. This upsets Lorraineleathompson. who lectures Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj that 'any girl who calls a boy is just asking for trouble.' When Lindawendiejosperber tries to defend Martymcflymichaelj. Lorraineleathompson.eathompson grows upset, insisting that when she was Lindawendiejosperber's age she never 'chased a boy, or called a boy, or sat in a parked car with a boy.' Lindawendiejosperber asks how she's supposed to meet anyone if she is to go through life like Lorraineleathompson.eathompson did. Lorraineleathompson.eathompson explains that it will happen just like she met Georgebrun. Lindawendiejosperber rolls her eyes, as Lorraineleathompson.eathompson once again relates the story of how they met supposedly, Georgebrun.run was up in a tree , when he slipped, fell into the street and was hit by Lorraineleathompson.s father's car. After taking him inside, and taking care of him, Lorraineleathompson.eathompson felt sorry enough for Georgebrun.run that she asked him to the Enchantment Under The Sea dance, which happened to be the same night the lightning bolt struck the clock tower. When they had their first kiss at the dance, she knew she was going to spend the rest of her life with him.  Sometime after midnight, Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj is awoken by a call from Doc, who asks Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj to stop by the lab and pick up his video camera that he forgot. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj does so, and heads to the Twin Pines Mall. When he gets there, he finds Doc's van sitting in the parking lot, with his dog, Einstein, sitting nearby. When Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj goes down to greet Einstein, the rear of the van opens up, and a heavily modified DeLorean DMC12 sedan is backed down the ramp. The driver's door lifts up, and Doc emerges from the vehicle, greeting Martymcflymichaelj. then instructs Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj to start recording.  Doc places Einstein in the DeLorean and buckles him in, having Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj note the time on the watch around Einstein's collar, and in Doc's hand. Both are synchronized to the same time. Doc then closes the DeLorean's door, and pulls out a remote control, that he uses to maneuver the DeLorean around the parking lot. When the vehicle is a specific distance away, Doc puts its brakes on, and starts ramping up its speed, before turning off the brakes, sending the DeLorean streaking right towards him and Martymcflymichaelj. Suddenly, a bright light is seen from inside the DeLorean, as additional fire and lights are set off around it, and suddenly, upon hitting 88 miles per hour on the speedometer, the car vanishes in a puff of light and electricity, leaving a pair of fire trails behind from the redhot tires. Doc excitedly cheers, but Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj is in shock, as it seems that Doc has just disintegrated Einstein.  Doc excitedly exclaims that he actually sent Einstein into the future. one minute into the future, to be exact. He also remarks excitedly that he built the time machine out of a DeLorean because it has style and because the steel body panels were a good conductor for the flux energy that propels the car through time. As if on cue, exactly one minute later, the DeLorean materializes where it disappeared, still traveling at the same speed as it was before, and screeches to a stop, now iced over. As Doc opens the door, Einstein is revealed to be alive and well, with his watch now one minute behind Doc's. Doc explains that Einstein likely believes that the trip was instantaneous, unaware of any change in time at all. Doc shows Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj a device in the cabin called the flux capacitor which makes time travel possible. Doc explains that, after an accident in his bathroom in 1955 where he hit his head, he had a vision of the flux capacitor. Though it took 30 years of research and most of his family's fortune to develop it the project is a success and Doc plans to travel through time. As he talks to Martymcflymichaelj. Doc absently sets the vehicle's destination time to that date, November 5th, 1955.  When Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj asks what the DeLorean runs on instead of gasoline, Doc tells him it needs plutonium, explaining that a nuclear reaction is necessary to generate 1.21 gigawatts to power the flux capacitor. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj is alarmed, asking where the Doc could possibly have gotten such a substance and Doc tells him that he hired a couple of Libyan terrorists to steal it for him with the promise of building them a bomb. Doc, however, cheated them, delivering a fake bomb.  Doc and Martymcflymichaelj. clad in yellow radiation suits, load another pellet of plutonium into the DeLorean and Doc begins his farewell address to Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj and the camera.  Just then, a Volkswagen van races into the parking lot. A man pops out of the roof with an AK47 and begins shooting . Doc yells for Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj to run in the van are the Libyans that Doc cheated. Doc tries to hide as well but that is when the Libyans' van comes to a stop in front of him. Doc throws away his revolver, showing that he intends to surrender, only for the Libyan to shoot him full of holes. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj screams and tries to hide but is found as well when the Libyan tries to shoot him, his rifle jams. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj jumps into the DeLorean and races off, the van close behind. As Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj swings back into the parking lot, he decides to see if the van can do 90 mph.  As he races towards a photo kiosk, Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj fails to see the speedometer creeping toward 88 mph or the fact that the time clock is set to November 5, 1955. Suddenly, there is a flash of light and the kiosk and parking lot are replaced with an empty grassy field, and the car plows through a scarecrow. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj is startled, loses control of the DeLorean, and crashes into a barn full of cows. The noise wakes up Otispeabody and his family, who live in the farmhouse next door, and they come outside to investigate the noise. When they open the barn doors, they are shocked at what they find what appears to be an airplane without wings has crashed on their property. Otispeabody's son Sherman decides that the DeLorean is actually an alien spaceship, showing his family a comic book depicting an alien arrival. Just then, the driver's door lifts up and Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj climbs out, still clad in his radiation suit. Otispeabody and his family scream in terror, thinking Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj is an alien, and flee towards the house.  Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj attempts to apologize for the damage, when suddenly Otispeabody returns with a shotgun and begins shooting at him. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj jumps back in the DeLorean and speeds out of the barn, Otispeabody continuing to shoot at him. As Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj flees down the dirt path leading to the road, he inadvertently plows through one of two small pine trees lying next to the path and protected by a picket fence. Otispeabody shoots at the car, in the process destroying his own mailbox, shouting, You space bastard You killed our pine  Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj reaches the two lane road and speeds off, muttering that the experience must be a nightmare, heading for home. When he gets to Lyon Estates, he finds the stone gates marking the entrance to the neighborhood, but to his surprise, instead of a street lined with houses, there is just an empty grassy field with several construction vehicles sitting idle and a large billboard advertising the future housing development that is breaking ground that winter.  Martymcflymichaelj. still clad in his radiation suit, sees a car coming along the road and attempts to hitchhike, but the occupants are scared by Martymcflymichaelj.s suit and continue driving. Discovering that the DeLorean is out of gas, Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj removes his radiation suit and pushes the DeLorean back behind the billboard to hide it from passing motorists, then notices a sign reading Hill Valley 2 Miles.  Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj is next seen walking into the courthouse square of downtown Hill Valley. Hill Valley of 1955 is a lot different to Martymcflymichaelj. The courthouse square is an actual garden instead of a parking lot. The Essex movie theater is showing  Cattle Queen of Montana instead of a porno film. The town's record store advertises new records 16 Tons by Merletravis and The Ballad of Davycrockett by Georgebrun.run. The Texaco station is a full service station where attendants not just fill up the tank but also wash the windows and check the customer's engine and tires. A mayoral campaign car drives around the square, blaring announcements to remind residents to Reelect Mayor Red Thomas Most importantly, the clock tower is still functioning, as indicated when Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj is surprised to hear its half hour chime. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj still believes that he is in a dream, but realizes this is reality when he picks up a newspaper tossed into a trash can and sees the date November 5, 1955 on the top of the paper.  Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj steps into Loucaruthers's Diner , at this point only inhabited by Loucaruthers, the owner, and another customer eating breakfast at the counter. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj goes to the phone booth and looks up Doc's address in the phonebook, tearing the page out so he can look it up later. As Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj tries to ask for directions, Loucaruthers demands that Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj either order something or leave. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj gets himself some decaf coffee after misunderstandings about Pepsi Free and Tab.  After Loucaruthers sets a coffee cup down in front of Martymcflymichaelj. we now notice that the customer Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj is sitting next to is his future father. Just then, the doors fly open and in walks Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf and his friends Match, Skinhead and 3D, who have come to harass Georgebrun. It turns out that Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf has been forcing Georgebrun.run to do his homework, something Georgebrun.run has been slacking off on. When Georgebrun.run admits that he hasn't completed Bifftannenthomasf.s homework, figuring that it is not due until Monday, Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf gets annoyed, and raps Georgebrun.run on the head, reminding Georgebrun.run that he will get expelled if he hands in his homework in Georgebrun.s handwriting. Georgebrun.run finally agrees to finish up Bifftannenthomasf.s work and hand it over the next day, and Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf and his friends leave.  After Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf and his friends leave, the diner's busboy, Goldiewilson , chides Georgebrun.run for letting Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf harass him all day. Georgebrun.run insists that Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf is bigger than him, while Goldiewilson points out that he doesn't expect to spend the rest of his own life working as a busboy, and he plans on becoming someone famous one day. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj immediately recognizes Goldiewilson and before realizing it, blurts out to Goldiewilson that he's going to be mayor in 1985. This plants the idea in Goldiewilson's mind and he begins to think about how as mayor of Hill Valley, and how he will clean up the town .  After Georgebrun.run leaves the diner, Martymcflymichaelj.s curiosity is piqued and he follows him into another neighborhood. He momentarily loses track of him until he finds Georgebrun.s bike parked beneath a tree. He looks up and notices Georgebrun.run on a tree branch, using a pair of binoculars to spy on a girl getting undressed in her bedroom across the street  Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj is shocked to find that Georgebrun.run is a Peeping Tom. As he strains to get a better look, Georgebrun.run suddenly slips and falls out of the tree, landing in the street in front of an oncoming Cadillac. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj instinctively rushes out and pushes Georgebrun.run out of harm's way. The car slams on its brakes, but it hits Martymcflymichaelj. who hits his head on the pavement and is knocked unconscious. Georgebrun.run gets on his bike and rides away as Sambaines, the driver, yells to his wife that another kid has jumped in front of his car.  When Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj comes around, it's night time and it is raining outside, and he is lying in an unfamiliar bed. His mother's voice tells him that he's been out for nine hours. Martymcflymichaelj. still semiconscious, quips about having a dream that he went back in time. Lorraineleathompson.s voice reassures him that he's safe and sound in 1955. This prompts Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj to bolt upright just as a lamp is turned on, and he is dumbstruck to see Lorraineleathompson. in 1955 a very attractive teenage girl. Lorraineleathompson.eathompson begins to hit on Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj almost immediately, thinking his name is Calvinklein . Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj instinctively panics when Lorraineleathompson.eathompson tries to make advances on him and looks like she is trying to kiss him. Fortunately for Martymcflymichaelj. this is interrupted when Lorraineleathompson.s mother Stella calls her down for dinner.  At dinner, Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj meets the rest of Lorraineleathompson.s siblings, including her brothers Milton and Toby, her sister Sally, and in the crib nearby, little baby Joey. Stella admits that Joey loves his crib, and cries every time they try to take him out. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj recognizes Joey as the future prison inmate, and can't resist the urge to joke to the baby to Better get used to these bars, kid. The family eats while watching an episode The Honeymooners on the new television set that Sambaines has just brought home. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj immediately recognizes the episode they are watching as one he has watched in 1985, which he explains by saying that he saw it in a rerun, a word that puzzles Lorraineleathompson.s younger brother. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj asks how to find Doc's address, which Lorraineleathompson.s father says is over on the east end of town. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj knows that area as Johnf. Kennedydrive, a name that Lorraineleathompson.s father doesn't know. As Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj leaves the house, Sambaines says that Martymcflymichaelj.s an idiot amp warns Lorraineleathompson.eathompson that if she ever has a kid like Martymcflymichaelj. he will disown her.  Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj makes his way over to Doc's house . When Doc, who does not recognize Martymcflymichaelj. answers the door, we see that he has a bandage on his forehead from where he hit his head trying to hang a clock above his toilet. Without saying a word, he immediately hooks Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj up to his newest invention  a thought reader. Doc determines that Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj comes from a great distance, and wants him to make a donation to the Coast Guard Youth Auxiliary.  Frustrated, Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj tells Doc directly that his time machine works and he is from the future. Doc is skeptical, even when Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj shows him his future driver's license and a family photo. Doc comments that the photo must have been forged as Davemarcmcclure's hair is missing from the picture. However, Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj is able to convince Doc of the truth by mentioning the wound on his head that prompted the vision of the flux capacitor. To prove that Doc has invented it, Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj has Doc drive him out to the place where he's hidden the DeLorean. Doc is overly delighted when he compares the drawing he made of a flux capacitor and sees the real device installed on the DeLorean.  After returning to Doc's estate, they manage to plug in Martymcflymichaelj.s portable television studio to see the video Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj had filmed in 1985. Doc becomes quite excited and panicky when they reach the point on tape where he will say that time travel requires 1.21 gigawatts of energy from the plutonium to power the flux capacitor. Doc explains that plutonium is very hard to come by in 1955 and that the only energy source capable of that amount of power is a lightning bolt. Predicting the strike zone of a lightning bolt is impossible and Doc tells Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj he may be stuck forever in 1955. But then Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj remembers the flyer the woman gave him about the lightning bolt that is going to strike the clock tower at exactly 1004 PM next Saturday night and hands it to Doc.  Now that he knows a date, Doc begins working on a plan to harness the power of the bolt and send Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj home. When Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj says he can hang out in 1955 for a week, Doc objects, warning him that it could be detrimental to future history and jeopardize his entire existence. He asks Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj if he had any interaction with anyone in the last few hours and Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj drops the bomb about preventing the first meeting between his father and mother. Doc asks to see the photo of Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj and his siblings again Davemarcmcclure's head is now completely gone. This means that in order to go back to 1985, Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj first needs to make his parents fall in love and have their first kiss within a week.  Doc takes Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj to the high school the next morning. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj is amazed to find that there is no graffiti on the building, unlike in 1985. After peeping through a classroom window and watching Lorraineleathompson.eathompson cheating on a test, they spot Georgebrun.run in the hallway during a passing period, seeing him being picked on . Georgebrun.run is further demoralized when Strickland  appears and tells him he's a slacker. Doc is baffled that Lorraineleathompson.eathompson could fall in love with someone like Georgebrun. and Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj admits that his best guess is she originally felt sorry for him after her dad nearly killed him. Doc recognizes their relationship as a version of the Florence Nightingale effect, which happens when nurses develop romantic feelings for their patients.  Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj tries encouraging Georgebrun.run to talk to Lorraineleathompson. however, an attempt to simply introduce them to each other fails because Lorraineleathompson.eathompson is already smitten with Martymcflymichaelj. Doc finds that the situation is more serious than they'd thought Georgebrun.run lacks the selfconfidence to ask Lorraineleathompson.eathompson out, as he fears that he couldn't handle a rejection if she said no, and getting them together permanently could be impossible. Over lunch, Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj tries again to convince Georgebrun.run by saying Lorraineleathompson.eathompson has been talking about him and that he should ask her to the Enchantment Under the Sea dance. Georgebrun.run spends his lunch by himself writing science fiction short stories. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj asks to read one of them and Georgebrun.run refuses, saying he's afraid people would be critical. He also suggests that Lorraineleathompson.eathompson may want to go with someone else to the dance, namely Bifftannenthomasf. who we see is across the cafeteria, sitting with Lorraineleathompson.eathompson and trying to grope her. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj immediately marches over to them and pulls the much larger Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf off his mother. Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf begins pushing Martymcflymichaelj. however, Martymcflymichaelj. unlike his meek father, begins pushing back and is about to fight Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf when Strickland breaks it up.  Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj follows Georgebrun.run home and begins pleading with Georgebrun.run to ask Lorraineleathompson.eathompson out. Georgebrun.run continues to refuse and tells Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj that no one in the world will make him change his mind. That night, Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj sneaks into Georgebrun.s room in his radiation suit, places his Walkman headphones on Georgebrun.run and gives him a blast of earsplitting Eddievanhalen guitar riffing. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj claims he is Darthvader, an extraterrestrial from the planet Vulcan, and intimidates Georgebrun.run into asking Lorraineleathompson.eathompson out, threatening him with a brain melting gun . To keep Georgebrun.run from calling for his parents, Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj chloroforms him, before jumping out the window and into Doc's car.  The next day, Georgebrun.run rushes up to Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj at the Texaco station, disheveled and frantic, having overslept, while Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj is trying to open a Pepsi  Georgebrun.run pops it open with the bottle hook on the machine. Georgebrun.run knows he needs to ask Lorraineleathompson.eathompson out but he doesn't know what he should say. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj takes Georgebrun.run back to Loucaruthers's diner, where Lorraineleathompson.eathompson is hanging out with her friends. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj suggests to Georgebrun.run that he tell Lorraineleathompson. Destiny has brought me to you. Georgebrun.run orders a chocolate milkshake to calm his nerves before approaching Lorraineleathompson. It gets off to a shaky start when, in a fit of nervousness, Georgebrun.run accidentally mangles the lines Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj gave him. Though Lorraineleathompson.eathompson seems charmed by him, Georgebrun.s attempt comes to a grinding halt when Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf and his friends come in to toss him out. As Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf demands money from Georgebrun. Martymcflymichaelj. sitting at the counter, accidentally trips Bifftannenthomasf. Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf turns his anger on Martymcflymichaelj. and is about to punch him when Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj tricks him into looking away, giving Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj the opportunity to shove Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf and bolt out the door.  Once outside, Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj grabs a passing girl's scooter, tears off the crate and turns the bottom into a skateboard. Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf and his goons chase Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj in Bifftannenthomasf.s car around the town square. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj is able to avoid serious injury. While riding on the hood of Bifftannenthomasf.s car, he distracts them by suddenly jumping up, jumping over the hood, the windshield and the backseat, and then hopping off onto the waiting skateboard at the rear. Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf and his friends are confused, and then see they are barreling towards a manure truck parked on the curb. They can only shout SHIIIIT as the car slams into the back of the truck, which dumps its entire load of manure on them. Watching the chase from the diner, Lorraineleathompson.eathompson becomes even more attracted to the adventurous Martymcflymichaelj.  Back at Doc's shop, the inventor shows Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj how he'll use the lighting bolt to power the DeLorean. He'll string heavy cable down to the street, building a circuit. A long hook attached to the back of the car will channel the energy from the bolt directly into the flux capacitor. The timing will have to be precise. The demonstration goes well, though it sets a garbage pail on fire. As Doc uses a fire extinguisher to put out the flames, they are interrupted by a knock at the door. To Doc's shock, it's Lorraineleathompson. who has followed Martymcflymichaelj. Doc and Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj quickly cover the DeLorean with a tarp before letting Lorraineleathompson.eathompson in. Lorraineleathompson.eathompson asks Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj if he wants to be her date to the Enchantment Under The Sea Dance. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj attempts to back out, suggesting she go with Georgebrun. but Lorraineleathompson.eathompson balks at the idea, saying a real man stands up for the woman he loves, referring to the fight Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj just had with Bifftannenthomasf.  Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj suddenly sees a way to get Georgebrun.run to win Lorraineleathompson.s heart. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj approaches Georgebrun.run while Georgebrun.run is doing his parents' laundry, and tells him to find him with Lorraineleathompson.eathompson in Doc's car in the school parking lot at a certain time, where Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj plans to appear to take advantage of her, which he believes will make her angry. Georgebrun.run is to pull Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj out of the car and pretend to beat him up, proving that he's the bigger man.  The night of the dance arrives. Georgebrun.run is already there, in a tux, waiting for his cue, as the allblack band known as the Starlighters performs on the stage. At Loucaruthers's Diner, Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj writes Doc a letter on a piece of stationary warning. He slips the note into the pocket of Doc's coat while Doc is in the middle of using 50 to bribe a cop who asks him if he has a permit for his weather experiment.  Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj arrives at the dance in Doc's car with Lorraineleathompson. As they stop, he asks her if they can park for a while. To Martymcflymichaelj.s astonishment, Lorraineleathompson.eathompson produces a small bottle of whiskey and begins to smoke, two bad habits she has in 1985. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj warns her she may regret it later and Lorraineleathompson.eathompson dismisses it, exasperated that Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj sounds like her mother. She also is aggressive in coming on to Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj in the car, much more than Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj had anticipated, though when she kisses Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj rather hard on the lips, she admits afterwards that she feels like she's kissing her brother.  Just then, the door is opened and Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj is pulled roughly from the driver's seat. But to Martymcflymichaelj.s shock, it's Bifftannenthomasf. drunk, and seeking revenge for the 300 in damages Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj inflicted on his car in the manure truck accident. When Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf sees Lorraineleathompson.eathompson in the car, however, he throws Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj to Match, Skinhead and 3D, climbs into the car, and begins to molest her. Match, Skinhead and 3D take Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj out behind the school and toss him into the open trunk of the first car they see, then slam the lid shut. Unfortunately for them, the car belongs to Marvinberry and the Starlighters. They scare Bifftannenthomasf.s gang off and they realize that the keys are in the trunk with Martymcflymichaelj.  Georgebrun.run arrives at Doc's car, opens the door as planned, and delivers the lines Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj told him, but is taken offguard realizing that he is not only dealing with Bifftannenthomasf. but his rescue is now the real deal. He takes a halfhearted punch at Bifftannenthomasf. who grabs his arm and begins to twist it. When Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf roughly pushes a pleading Lorraineleathompson.eathompson off and begins laughing, Georgebrun.run summons up the strength and courage, curls his left hand into a fist, and punches Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf squarely in the jaw, knocking him out. Martymcflymichaelj. freed from the trunk thanks to Marvinberry himself, races to the scene just in time to see Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf slump to the ground at Georgebrun.s feet. Georgebrun.run takes the grateful Lorraineleathompson.s hand and the two go into the dance hall.  Martymcflymichaelj. knowing that his future isn't sealed until Georgebrun.run kisses Lorraineleathompson. goes back to the band and finds that Marvinberry is unable to play guitar having injured his hand while freeing Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj from the trunk. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj agrees to play guitar in Marvinberry's place and the band strikes up again, playing a romantic song . Martymcflymichaelj. already weak because his parents' love is not confirmed, begins to fade into nonexistence when a fellow student cuts in between Georgebrun.run and Lorraineleathompson.eathompson on the dance floor, however, Georgebrun.run regains his courage, takes Lorraineleathompson.eathompson back and kisses her passionately. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj is instantly revived and finishes the song and sees his mother and father happily in each others arms.  Chuckberry asks Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj to play another number with the band. Reluctant at first, Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj can't resist the opportunity and launches the band into Johnnyb. Goode. While Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj plays, Marvinberry calls his cousin Chuckberry , telling him that he found the new sound Chuckberry was looking for. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj does Chuckberry's trademark duck walk, and then gets carried away imitating other guitar heroes  windmilling his arm and kicking over his amplifier in imitation of Petetownshend, lying on the stage kicking his legs in imitation of Angusyoung, playing behind his head like Jimihendrix, and tapping in the style of Eddievanhalen. In the face of uncomprehending stares from the audience, while lost in heavy metal riffing, Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj stops and tells the students I guess you're not ready for that. But your kids are gonna LOVE it. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj turns to leave the dance and runs into Georgebrun.run and Lorraineleathompson. Lorraineleathompson.eathompson asks if it's OK for Georgebrun.run to take her home and Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj heartily agrees. He also advises them that if they have a son who accidentally sets fire to the living room rug when he's eight years old, to go easy on him, implying that he's talking about himself  At the town square, Doc waits impatiently for Martymcflymichaelj. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj arrives, saying he needed time to change back into his 1985 clothes. As they prepare for the event, Doc discovers the note from Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj in his pocket. Refusing to know too much about his future, he tears up the note without reading it. Just then, a falling tree limb disconnects the cable he has installed from the clock tower to the street. Doc climbs again to the clock tower and has Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj feed him the cable. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj also tries to warn Doc about his death but is drowned out by thunder. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj runs back to the DeLorean and races off to the starting point Doc has painted for him. While waiting for the timer to go off, he resets his destination time to arrive 11 minutes earlier than he left so he can warn Doc. Just then, the car stalls and Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj frantically tries to start it again. When it does restart, after the timer goes off, Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj begins speeding toward the town square. Despite some difficulty, Doc reconnects the cable just as the lighting bolt surges through the line and the DeLorean speeds off into the future, leaving behind a pair of fire trails. Doc celebrates joyously in the street.  Back in 1985, around 119 AM, a homeless bum is seen sleeping on a bench in the town square when he is woken up by three sonic booms, just as the DeLorean materializes and slams into the porno theatre just down the block. The bum, Red, quips Crazy drunk drivers. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj backs the DeLorean out and turns around, only for the car to promptly ice up from the time travel trip. Just then, the Libyans' blue VW minibus passes by, driving recklessly. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj jumps back into the DeLorean only to have it stall on him.  Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj is forced to run to the mall where the initial experiment is taking place. As he arrives, we see that the sign now reads Lone Pine Mall, another indication of how Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj has accidentally altered the past when he crushed Otispeabody's pine tree. He sees Doc get shot, again and watches from a distance as the Libyans chase his previous self around the parking lot. When the DeLorean vanishes and Martymcflymichaelj.s counterpart goes back to 1955, the Libyans lose control of their van, which and crashes into the photo kiosk amp tips on its side, trapping the Libyans. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj runs down to Doc. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj is devastated that he couldn't arrive in time to save Doc. Doc, however, suddenly sits up. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj is stunned until Doc opens his shirt, revealing that he's wearing a bulletproof vest. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj asks him about the consequences of changing the future and the spacetime continuum and the Doc admit, Well, I thought, 'What the hell'. Doc drives Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj home and tells him he plans to venture about 30 years into the future. He then ramps the DeLorean up to 88 mph and drives off into the night in a flash of light.  Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj wakes up the next morning to find that the furniture in his house is arranged differently. Davemarcmcclure is wearing a suit and working an office job. Lindawendiejosperber seems to be having trouble keeping track of all the teenage boys who keep calling her for dates, much to Davemarcmcclure's exasperation. Georgebrun.run and Lorraineleathompson.eathompson arrive home from a tennis match, happy and even a bit frisky. Lorraineleathompson.eathompson asks Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj about the camping trip he has planned with Jenniferparkerclaudiawells. to which Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj mentions that the car is wrecked. Everyone starts barking about it until Georgebrun.run shows them that Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf is waxing the car, a late model BMW, in the driveway. Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf now runs an auto detailing service and now is working for Georgebrun. rather than the other way around. Georgebrun.run seems amused at Bifftannenthomasf.s efforts to get away with as little work as possible . Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf jokingly says that he'll complete the work properly.  Moments later, Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf comes into the house carrying a box filled with copies of Georgebrun.s first published book, the cover of which resembles Martymcflymichaelj.s appearance in the radiation suit. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj is unsure how to take everything in when Bifftannenthomasf.annenthomasf hands him a set of keys. They are for the Toyota pickup truck he'd been thinking about purchasing with Jenniferparkerclaudiawells.arkerclaudiawells back at the beginning of the movie. As Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj goes into the garage and looks at the truck, quite astonished that the future had been altered so dramatically for himself and his family, Jenniferparkerclaudiawells.arkerclaudiawells appears behind Martymcflymichaelj. He's relieved to see her and happy that his family is happier as well.  Suddenly there is a burst of electricity and the DeLorean screeches to a halt. Doc gets out, dressed in wild clothing and tells Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj he needs to come with him to the future something is wrong with his and Jenniferparkerclaudiawells.s kids. Doc gathers fuel by rummaging through a garbage can and loads it into a new addition to the car's engine called Mr. Fusion. All three pile into the DeLorean and it backs out of the driveway. Martymcflymichaelj.cflymichaelj tells the Doc he needs to back up further to get up to 88 mph, as they have no road. Doc replies, Roads Where we're going, we don't need roads Doc has converted the car to a hovercraft. The car takes off, and flies at the camera. and the words To be continued. flash on the screen.