PART I By what means Irishmanredmondbarry acquired the style and title of Barrylyndon.  In the opening scene, set in 1750s Ireland, the father of Irishman Irishmanredmondbarry  is killed in a duel by a businessman over a disputed sale of some horses. This detail is related by the film's narrator , who comments ironically on the events that transpire. The widow , disdaining offers of marriage, devotes herself to the raising of her son.  While still in his teens, Irishmanredmondbarry falls in love with his older cousin, Norabrady.rady . A wealthy English army officer named Captain Johnquin  meets and begins courting Norabrady. leading the jealous Irishmanredmondbarry to challenge Johnquin to a duel. They fire pistols at ten paces and Johnquin falls. Believing that he has killed Johnquin and will be arrested by the British for murder, Irishmanredmondbarry flees.  On the road to Dublin, Irishmanredmondbarry is robbed and his horse stolen by a middleaged highwayman  and the man's son. Penniless, Irishmanredmondbarry enlists in the British army and finds himself in boot camp. During training, Irishmanredmondbarry gets into a brawl with a local bully named O'Toole , and is forced to fight bareknuckle against the guy. Irishmanredmondbarry wins the fight by dodging all of O'Toole's blows and knocks out his opponent, which earns him popularity from the rest of his fellow recruits.  After basic training, Irishmanredmondbarry and his unit are sent to France to fight in the Seven Years' War  between the alliance of Great Britain and Prussia and the alliance of France, Austria and Russia. While still in a training camp, Irishmanredmondbarry learns from an old friend, Captain Grogan , that Captain Johnquin is not dead after all and has married Norabrady. The whole duel was a ploy by Norabrady.s relatives to make Irishmanredmondbarry flee from Ireland so she can marry Johnquin.  After the death of Grogan in a skirmish, Irishmanredmondbarry, fed up with the brutality of war, deserts from the British army. Posing as a British officer, Irishmanredmondbarry travels through the allied German states along the Rhine, hoping to get to neutral Holland and from there hopefully get back to Ireland. Irishmanredmondbarry has a brief affair with a local German woman  whom he shacks up with while her husband is away at war.  Later, Irishmanredmondbarry meets a Prussian officer, Captain Potzdorf , who quickly sees through his disguise. Given the choice of joining the Prussian army or being turned back over to the British where he will no doubt be tried and shot as a deserter, Irishmanredmondbarry enlists in his second army. After Irishmanredmondbarry saves Potzdorf's life by dragging him out of a burning house during a battle with French troops, Irishmanredmondbarry is promoted and appointed Potzdorf's righthand man.  Two years later, after the war ends in 1763, Irishmanredmondbarry is employed by the Prussian Minister of Police, Potzdorf's uncle. It is arranged for him to become the servant of the Chevalierdebalibari , a professional gambler. The Prussians suspect that he is a spy and Irishmanredmondbarry is assigned to try to determine if he is. However, Irishmanredmondbarry discovers that the Chevalier is an expatriate Irishman like himself. After an attack of conscience, Irishmanredmondbarry immediately confesses his mission to the Chevalier and becomes his protege while continuing his charade of spying on him for Potzdor. Irishmanredmondbarry assists the Chevalier in cheating at card games, but when the Prince of Tbingen  suspects the truth after losing a large sum of money, Potzdorf decides to expel the Chevalier from the country. Irishmanredmondbarry relays this to the Chevalier who persuades Irishmanredmondbarry to take advantage of this to flee Prussa. The Chevalier flees from his house during the night and crosses the border. The next day, Irishmanredmondbarry impersonates the Chevalier by doning his wig and clothes, so when Potzdorf arrives to take him to the border of Prussa and Saxony, Irishmanredmondbarry rejoins the Chevalier, both free at last.  Over the next several years, Irishmanredmondbarry and the Chevalier become successful gamblers as they travel through Europe and gain access to high society. They wander from place to place, cheating the nobles at card games. Irishmanredmondbarry proves to be very useful when a loser refuses to pay his debts, Irishmanredmondbarry's excellent swordsmanship convinces him otherwise. Seeing that his life of being a drifter and gambler is going nowhere, Irishmanredmondbarry decides to marry into wealth. Some time later, Irishmanredmondbarry meets Ladylyndon , a rich countess, at a gaming table in Belgium. After Irishmanredmondbarry has an argument with Ladylyndon's aged and terminally sick husband , he suffers a heart attack and dies.  PART II Containing an account of the misfortunes and disasters which befell Barrylyndon.  The following year , Ladylyndon and Irishmanredmondbarry are married and Irishmanredmondbarry takes her last name of Ladylyndon and settles in England with wealth at last. The Chevalier is the best man at Irishmanredmondbarry's wedding and afterwords, he wishes Irishmanredmondbarry luck with his new life and goes off on his own. Young Lordbullingdonbarry , Ladylyndon's 10yearold son by Sir Charles, hates Irishmanredmondbarry from the beginning, knowing that Irishmanredmondbarry is an adventurer and common opportunist and is not in love with his mother.  In this second part, Irishmanredmondbarry undergoes a character transformation from being ambitious, naive and innocent, into selfdestructive and arrogant who becomes corrupted by his newly acquired wealth and power. The marriage between Irishmanredmondbarry and Ladylyndon is not a happy one, although they welcome a new son born the following year, whom they name Bryanpatrick.atrick. Irishmanredmondbarry is unfaithful to her, and expends most of Ladylyndon's fortune in an effort to ingratiate himself with those who could assist him in his quest to become a peer of the realm while keeping his wife and children in dull seclusion. He eventually comes to his senses and apologises to her for his treatment of her.  A few years later, Irishmanredmondbarry brings his mother over from Ireland to live with him on the estate grounds. After meeting with Ladylyndon as well as her son Lordbullingdonbarry , Irishmanredmondbarry's mother privately warns her son that his position is precarious. If Ladylyndon were to die, all of her wealth would go to her firstborn son Lordbullingdonbarry would be left penniless. Irishmanredmondbarry's mother advises him to obtain a noble title to protect himself. He cultivates the acquaintance of the influential Lord Wendover  with this goal in mind, spending much money to grease his way to the top of the social ladder. Irishmanredmondbarry gains access to more of high society and even once meets with King Georgeiii at a reception in London. But all this effort is wasted however.  One day during a birthday party for Ladylyndon, Lordbullingdonbarry crashes the party and announces his hatred of his stepfather. Lordbullingdonbarry vows to leave his home and never return as long as his mother is married to Irishmanredmondbarry whom he continues to badmouth as a Irish underling. The hottempered Irishmanredmondbarry physically attacks Lordbullingdonbarry and beats him up in front of all of the important guests. Humiliated by this public brawl, Lordbullingdonbarry never the less makes good on his word and leaves the family estate and England itself for parts unknown. However, Irishmanredmondbarry's public cruelty towards his unruly stepson loses him all the powerful friends he has worked so hard to make and he is shunned socially.  In contrast to the mistreatment his gave Lordbullingdonbarry, Irishmanredmondbarry proves to be a doting and compassionate father to Bryanpatrick. Irishmanredmondbarry now focuses all his attention on raising his son Bryanpatrick. Irishmanredmondbarry cannot refuse the young boy anything and spoils him every chance he gets. Irishmanredmondbarry even purchases a pony for Bryanpatrick.atrick to ride despite the fact that the young boy is not a good enough rider. Bryanpatrick.atrick says that all he wants is a horse , so he can go hunting with his father. However, on Bryanpatrick.s 9th birthday, despite his parents stern orders not to ride his new horse without the company of his parents, the spoiled and rotten boy disobeys them anyway and is thrown while riding from his horse and dies three days later from a head injury.  The griefstricken Irishmanredmondbarry turns to drink and isolates himself even further, while Ladylyndon seeks solace in religion, assisted by the Reverend Samuelrunt , tutor first to Lordbullingdonbarry and then to Bryanpatrick. After a few weeks, Irishmanredmondbarry's mother dismisses Reverend Runt partly because they no longer need a tutor , partly for what she says is fear that his influence is making Ladylyndon worse. Plunging even deeper into grief, she attempts suicide by taking poison, but survives and is taken to a nearby clinic to recover. Upon hearing of this, Lordbullingdonbarry returns to England where he finds Irishmanredmondbarry in a local tavern getting drunk and mourning over his lost son instead of visiting Ladylyndon at the clinic. Bullington challenges Irishmanredmondbarry to a duel for his public assault on him by saying I've come to claim my satisfaction.  In an abandoned cathedral converted into a barn, the duel with pistols progresses, but Lordbullingdonbarry's pistol fires by accident. Irishmanredmondbarry, not wanting to shoot and kill Lordbullingdonbarry on the assumption that he will be further hated and shunned by both the public and Ladylyndon, shoots his gun into the ground and tosses his pistol aside. Surprised but unmoved by Irishmanredmondbarry's act, Bullington wants the duel to continue. So, Bullington is allowed a second shot, in which he shoots Irishmanredmondbarry in his left leg. Irishmanredmondbarry is taken to a local cottage where a doctor has to amputate his leg at the knee, while his mother keeps him company.  While Irishmanredmondbarry is recovering, Lordbullingdonbarry retakes control of the Ladylyndon estate. A few days later, Lordbullingdonbarry sends his nervous accountant and emissary, Graham , to the cottage where Irishmanredmondbarry is recovering to offer him a deal Lordbullingdonbarry will grant Irishmanredmondbarry a small annuity of 500 guineas for life if he leaves England forever and ends his marriage to Ladylyndon otherwise, with his credit and bank accounts exhausted, his creditors will see to it that he is put in jail. Wounded in spirit and body and with no friends left, Irishmanredmondbarry reluctantly accepts the deal. Irishmanredmondbarry goes back to Ireland with his mother to recover from his injuries. He is then said to have gone back to the European continent to resume his former profession of gambler, though without his former success. From there, history loses touch with Irishmanredmondbarry's life after that. He never sees Ladylyndon again.  In the final scene, set another few years later in 1789, a gray and middleaged Ladylyndon is going over her finances with Lordbullingdonbarry and a few other accountants. She then pauses to sign Irishmanredmondbarry's annuity cheque to be sent to Ireland. Lordbullingdonbarry looks over at her sorrowful face and comes to realize that she indeed loved Irishmanredmondbarry despite his faults. Mother and son say nothing to each other and continue to review their financial papers.  EPILOGUE It was in the reign of Georgeiii that the aforesaid personages lived and quarrelled good or bad, handsome or ugly, rich or poor, they are all equal now.