The film's story is divided into three timelines  Blue represents the  present  Red represents  close flashbacks, which deal with Brucewayne.ayne 3 years earlier  Green represents  distant flashbacks, which deal with Brucewayne.ayne aged 8 years old  In the  present and  close flashbacks, Brucewayne.ayne is played by  Christianbale and Racheldawes.awes is played by  Katieholmes. In  distant flashbacks, Brucewayne.ayne is played by  Guslewis and Racheldawes.awes is played by  Emmalockhart.  A large swarm of bats fly from left to right of shot. Backlighted by a reddish sky, they make the shape of Batman's symbol.   Distant flashback Brucewayne.ayne and Racheldawes.awes are playing in the Waynemanor garden. Brucewayne.ayne falls down an sealed up well and fractures his arm. He is then attacked by a swarm of bats emerging from a large gaping crack at the well base.   Present Brucewayne.ayne wakes up from the nightmare in a Chinese prison. It becomes apparent that Brucewayne.ayne is regularly attacked by other inmates who brawl with him 6 to 1 at breakfast. Having beaten the majority of them, Brucewayne.ayne is punished with solitary confinement by the prison guards. In solitary, Brucewayne.ayne is approached by a man called Henriducardliamneeson.iamneeson Liam Neeson. Henriducardliamneeson.iamneeson displays a great deal of knowledge and authority by getting an audience with Brucewayne.ayne from the prison and by stating that he knows who Brucewayne.ayne is. Henriducardliamneeson.iamneeson then offers Brucewayne.ayne a place in the League of Shadows  a collective of vigilantes and assassins. He deems that the League can offer Brucewayne.ayne a path to true justice instead of 'locking himself away with criminals to take them on one at a time.' Henriducardliamneeson.iamneeson arranges for Brucewayne.ayne to be released in the morning, when he will have to decide whether he will accept Henriducardliamneeson.s offer. Should he do so he must pick a rare blue flower from the eastern slopes and carry it to the top of a nearby mountain.  Brucewayne.ayne is released, as promised, and carries out his task. After carrying the flower to the top of the mountain, Brucewayne.ayne finds himself at the door of the League of Shadows headquarters. Inside he meets Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s Alghulkenwatanabe, the head of the League, and is confronted by Henriducardliamneeson.iamneeson once again. Brucewayne.ayne hands over the blue flower and in doing so completes his test for membership. Henriducardliamneeson.iamneeson then suddenly attacks him, warning the exhausted Brucewayne.ayne that 'death does not wait for you to be ready.' Although Brucewayne.ayne fights back he is easily beaten and collapses.   Distant flashback Brucewayne.ayne is still in the well after being attacked by the bats. His father, Dr. Thomaswayne Linus Roache, comes down to rescue him and sets Brucewayne.s fractured arm with the help of the family butler Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine. Thomaswayne comforts Brucewayne.ayne by asking 'Why do we fall So we can learn to pick ourselves up'. Later on Brucewayne.ayne admits to his father that he was scared of the bats and is now suffering nightmares. After being comforted further, Thomaswaynelinusroache shows his son the pearl necklace he'll give to his wife as a gift.  That night, Thomaswaynelinusroache and Martha take Brucewayne.ayne to the opera via monorail. While on the train, Thomaswaynelinusroache confides that the city is in an economic downturn, and his company Wayneenterprisesceowilliamearlerutgerhauer.eowilliamearlerutgerhauer funded the construction of the trains, routing them into the center of the city. Thomaswaynelinusroache, however, leaves running of the company to more interested people, prefering to work as a doctor at the hospital. While watching the opera  Mefistofelebruce is frightened by the bats in the production, which remind him of the bats that attacked him and asks his father if they can leave. Outside, in an alleyway, a man named Joechillrichardbrake Richard Brake accosts them with a revolver and demands the pearl necklace Thomaswaynelinusroache gave to Martha. A fight breaks out, and in the struggle, both Thomaswaynelinusroache and Martha are shot and are mortally wounded. Chill runs away, leaving Brucewayne.ayne alone with his parents. Before dying, Thomaswaynelinusroache manages to tell Brucewayne. Don't be afraid  That night, Brucewayne.ayne is watched after at the police station by officer Jamesgordongaryoldman. Midway through, police commissioner Gillianb. Loeb  comes in and informs Brucewayne.ayne that the police have caught Chill.  Brucewayne.ayne is put into Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine's care. After the funeral, Wayneenterprisesceowilliamearlerutgerhauer.eowilliamearlerutgerhauer CEO Williamearlerutgerhauer tells Brucewayne.ayne that the company will be looked after until Brucewayne.ayne grows up. Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine tries to console Brucewayne.ayne when the boy confesses that his parents' deaths were his fault because he asked to leave the opera early.   Present Henriducardliamneeson.iamneeson asks Brucewayne.ayne if he still feels responsible for the death of his parents. Brucewayne.ayne responds that his is far too angry to feel guilty. His training with the League of Shadows begins. He is trained in the arts of ninjutsu, stealth, combat theatricality and deception. Brucewayne.ayne is trained not only to fight 6 men but to 'engage 600.'  Henriducardliamneeson.iamneeson enforces his belief that all forms of crime must be fought without mercy and pity. Henriducardliamneeson.iamneeson explains that his wife was murdered and that he joined the League when he achieved his vengeance. Brucewayne.ayne reveals that he can't claim his vengeance.   Close flashback 14 years after his parents were killed, Brucewayne.ayne arrives at Waynemanor from Princeton University he's come home for Joechillrichardbrake's parole hearing. Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine still manages the house and expresses his concern over Brucewayne. Racheldawes.awes is now an Assistant District Attorney and takes Brucewayne.ayne to the hearing. Unknown to her, Brucewayne.ayne is concealing a revolver, with which he plans to shoot Chill down if he is released.  In the hearing, Chill expresses remorse for the murder of Brucewayne.s parents and is given parole should he testify against his cellmate, gang boss Carminefalconetomwilkinson. However, before Brucewayne.ayne can act, a female assassin posing as a reporter comes up with a pistol in hand and shoots Chill. Brucewayne.ayne watches as Chill bleeds to death and the assassin is arrested.  Driving away after the incident, Racheldawes.awes lectures Brucewayne.ayne afterward on the difference between justice and revenge and reveals that Gotham City is still suffering because of Carminefalconetomwilkinson.s illegal drug empire. Racheldawes.awes then slaps him harshly when he reveals that he was planning to shoot Chill. She tells him that his father would be ashamed of him.  Brucewayne. convinced that he has nothing to lose, makes his way to a bar in the Gotham underworld to confront Carminefalconetomwilkinson. Carminefalconetomwilkinson brags about his control over the city's police and judges, even pointing out who he has in his pockets who is present. He then threatens Racheldawes.awes and Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine to prove that Brucewayne.ayne does have a lot to lose. His thugs beat up Brucewayne.ayne and he leaves. Left no other choice but to run away, Brucewayne.ayne stows away aboard a cargo ship leaving the port.  Brucewayne.ayne is then shown in China stealing food to survive and eventually getting involved in gangster operations in order to infiltrate them. He is then arrested  ironically, in the act of stealing Brucewayne Enterprise crates  and sent to the prison Henriducardliamneeson.iamneeson discovered him in at the beginning.   Present When Brucewayne.ayne reaches a skill level in which he is an equal to the majority in the League, he faces Henriducardliamneeson.iamneeson in combat. However, he is exposed beforehand to the vapors of the blue flower he brought up to the mountain earlier. The smoke distorts his senses and makes him hallucinate about bats, his greatest fear. Brucewayne.ayne overcomes his phobia and employs a clever trick to best Henriducardliamneeson.iamneeson in a sword fight, passing the trial.  Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s Alghul sends for him and Henriducardliamneeson. Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s puts Brucewayne.ayne to one final task before becoming a full member of the League. The task is to execute a prisoner of the League  a man who has stolen his neighbour's land and killed them. Brucewayne.ayne refuses. Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s reveals to Brucewayne.ayne that he has been trained in order to lead the League to Gotham City, which is corrupted by evil to such an extent that it must be razed. Brucewayne.ayne sets a diversion, and lighs the League's headquarters on fire and is forced to fight Alghul while the the rest of the League escapes the wreckage to safety. Henriducardliamneeson.iamneeson is knocked out by Brucewayne.ayne who then manages to fend off Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s, who is killed instantly when a roof beam collapses on him. Brucewayne.ayne picks up an unconscious Henriducardliamneeson.iamneeson and rescues him from the building as it explodes. Brucewayne.ayne leaves Henriducardliamneeson.iamneeson in the care of a villager.  Brucewayne.ayne contacts Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine, who arrives in a private jet to pick him up. Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine reveals that Brucewayne. who has been away for seven years, has been legally declared dead by Wayneenterprisesceowilliamearlerutgerhauer.eowilliamearlerutgerhauer so that Wayneenterprisesceowilliamearlerutgerhauer.eowilliamearlerutgerhauer can take Wayneenterprisesceowilliamearlerutgerhauer.eowilliamearlerutgerhauer public. Brucewayne.ayne says it's a good thing he willed everything to Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine, who jokes that Brucewayne.ayne is welcome to borrow the RollsRoyceso long as he brings it back with a full tank. Brucewayne.ayne explains to Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine a plan he has to fight the Gotham underworld by taking on a new persona, which all criminals will fear.  In Gotham, a serial killer named Victorzsaztimbooth, who is allegedly insane, is being transferred from a regular prison to the Arkham Asylum on the opinion of Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy. Racheldawes.awes challenges this as Victorzsaztimbooth is yet another one of Carminefalconetomwilkinson.s thugs that Jonathancranecillianmurphy has had moved to the Asylum and away from prison, and goes unnoticed due to Carminefalconetomwilkinson.s corrupt influence. Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy meets with Carminefalconetomwilkinson later on that night and demands that Racheldawes.awes be dealt with. When Carminefalconetomwilkinson refuses, Jonathancranecillianmurphy threatens him with the knowledge that his unknown boss is coming to the city.  Holed up in Waynemanor, Brucewayne.ayne begins to work out what has happened since he has been away. While doing so he spots a bat flying around the ceiling. He goes back to the abandoned well and climbs down. Through the crack in which the bats appeared when he was attacked in his childhood, Brucewayne.ayne finds a huge cave filled with bats, which is connected to the lowest foundations of Waynemanor. Coming to terms with his fear he establishes the cave as his base of operations.  Brucewayne.ayne decides to announce his return and reports to Wayneenterprisesceowilliamearlerutgerhauer. where he makes a dramatic entrance to his own company's building by seducing a secretary into playing office golf. Wayneenterprisesceowilliamearlerutgerhauer.eowilliamearlerutgerhauer, clearly shocked, warns him that he cannot prevent the company from going public at this later stage. Brucewayne.ayne explains that he is not bothered by this and that all he wants is a job, preferably in Applied Sciences.  Wayneenterprisesceowilliamearlerutgerhauer.eowilliamearlerutgerhauer sets this up and Brucewayne.ayne goes to meet his new 'boss', his father's best friend Luciusfoxmorganfreeman. Luciusfoxmorganfreeman explains to Brucewayne.ayne that the Applied Sciences Department is a dead end, where Wayneenterprisesceowilliamearlerutgerhauer.eowilliamearlerutgerhauer can reassign employees he considers troublemakers. Luciusfoxmorganfreeman introduces Brucewayne.ayne to some of the equipment he's invented, that Brucewayne.ayne finds worthy. One is a special bulletproof Nomex survival suit, a Kevlar suit that will stop knives and any gun but a straight shot. It was meant for military use, but it apparently never caught on because the Army didn't think soldiers' lives were worth the 300,000 cost. Other items Luciusfoxmorganfreeman shows to Brucewayne.ayne include a grappling gun and a safety harness. Brucewayne.ayne casually asks Luciusfoxmorganfreeman if he can 'borrow' the gear for spelunking. Luciusfoxmorganfreeman allows it, considering all the equipment to belong to Brucewayne.ayne anyway, though he is curious why Brucewayne.ayne is expecting to run into a lot of gunfire in the caves he's exploring.  Brucewayne.ayne continues to explore the cave where he and Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine find the lower foundations of the southeast wing of Waynemanor and an old elevator shaft leading back up the house. Brucewayne.ayne also begins to modify the battle suit he borrowed adding batshaped gauntlets and spraypainting it a dark black.  A few nights later, Brucewayne.ayne dons a ski mask and the grappling gear, goes to the police station, and breaks into Jamesgordongaryoldman's office, recognizing Jamesgordongaryoldman, who since we last saw him has been promoted to sergeant, to be one of the city's few uncorrupted cops. By threatening him with a staple gun behind his back, Brucewayne.ayne questions Jamesgordongaryoldman on what it would take to bring Carminefalconetomwilkinson to justice. Jamesgordongaryoldman responds that leverage on the corrupt Judge Faden and a D.A. brave enough to prosecute will be needed. Brucewayne.ayne tells him to watch for his sign, then escapes by jumping off the roof across to the next building, injuring himself in the process. Jamesgordongaryoldman tries to give chase, but it proves worthless to chase a random nut.  Brucewayne.ayne realizes now that he needs a lightweight fabric to make a glider wing or parachute. He goes back to Luciusfoxmorganfreeman and asks if there is any technology there that would suit him for 'BASEjumping.' Luciusfoxmorganfreeman shows him a special material called memory cloth, which is designed so that the molecules realign to form any type of rigid shape when an electric current passes through it. Brucewayne.ayne then takes interest in a tanklike transport called the Tumbler. As he drives it around an open warehouse floor, Luciusfoxmorganfreeman explains that it was built as a bridging vehicle for the army. It is able to accelerate to high speeds, is tricked out with a variety of gadgets and weapons, and has a booster rocket that can send the vehicle into a rampless jump. At the end of the session, Luciusfoxmorganfreeman asks Brucewayne.ayne what he thinks of the Tumbler. Brucewayne.ayne only has one question Does it come in black  Back in the cave, Brucewayne.ayne adds further modifications to his suit, adding a radio transmitter, a cowling, the memory cloth, and a utility belt. He makes steel shurikens in the shape of a bat. He explains to Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine that he has chosen the bat as his symbol because bats frighten him and it's time that his enemies shared his dread.  At the docks, Carminefalconetomwilkinson and a corrupt police officer, Arnoldflassmarkboonejunior, are watching Carminefalconetomwilkinson.s thugs unload a shipment of drugs from an inbound cargo ship. The drugs are concealed in toys  stuffed bears and rabbits. The bears are to go to the drug dealers and the rabbits to a mystery man in the Narrows  a povertystricken area of Gotham overrun by crime. However, three of the thugs mysteriously vanish leaving nothing but a loud scream as they vanish into the darkness. As the others investigate, more disappear. The Batman quickly disposes of the remaining thugs and attacks Carminefalconetomwilkinson.  Jamesgordongaryoldman and his officers arrive to find the drugs and disarmed thugs at the scene and Carminefalconetomwilkinson bound to a searchlight with his coat cut in such a way as to produce the shadow of a bat in the night sky.  Meanwhile, Racheldawes.awes is getting off a monorail train, while being shadowed by two of Carminefalconetomwilkinson.s thugs. She notices one and threatens him with a taser. He runs in fear when he sees Batman beating up the second thug. As Racheldawes.awes turns she screams at the sight of Batman. He produces photographs compromising Judge Faden and then disappears as a police officer shows up.  The news the next day of a 'Batman' has the whole city talking. Loeb is not happy that a vigilante is doing the job the police are meant to do, in spite of Jamesgordongaryoldman's defense that the vigilante did hand them Carminefalconetomwilkinson on a platter. Racheldawes.awes and the D.A.'s office decide that there is enough evidence to put Carminefalconetomwilkinson on trial despite it been given to them by a vigilante.  Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine wakes Brucewayne.ayne up at 300pm in the afternoon, despite Brucewayne.s pleas for more sleep, and then frets over the bruises and injuries that he has taken the previous night. He informs Brucewayne.ayne that he must live the life he would normally in public in order not to raise suspicion  doing such things as drive exotic sports cars, date movie stars, buy things that are not for sale, etc.  Wayneenterprisesceowilliamearlerutgerhauer.eowilliamearlerutgerhauer, meanwhile, gets word that a Brucewayne Tech Enterprise weapon, a microwave emitter, has been stolen from one of their cargo ships, and the crew of said ship has apparently been killed. The emitter is another military weapon, which uses focused microwaves to vaporize an enemy's water supply.  Brucewayne.ayne takes Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine's advice quite to the extreme. This starts with him going to a Wayneenterprisesceowilliamearlerutgerhauer.eowilliamearlerutgerhauer party at a hotel with two female escorts, who almost get Brucewayne.ayne kicked out by bathing in the decorative fountain, a situation Brucewayne.ayne resolves by writing a check and purchasing the hotel on the spot. There he meets Racheldawes.awes for the first time since returning from China. Although he tries to convince her that the way he is acting isn't really him, she tells him that it's not who you are underneath, but what you do that defines you.  Carminefalconetomwilkinson has cut his wrists in prison to bolster his insanity plea and enable a move to Arkham Asylum. Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy is brought in to assess his insanity. Once they're alone, Carminefalconetomwilkinson demands that Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy move him in return for Carminefalconetomwilkinson not suggesting the police have a closer look at the drugs he has been trafficking for Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy. Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy thinks for a moment about what to do. He then asks Carminefalconetomwilkinson if he wants to see the mask he uses in his experiments at the Asylum, which he says the patients can't stand. He pulls a burlapsack mask out of his briefcase. He releases gas from his suitcase and puts on the mask, which acts as an air filter. Carminefalconetomwilkinson screams with fear at the hallucinations caused by the gas. Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy is next seen leaving the room with his masked stored away, while Carminefalconetomwilkinson.s screams can still be heard. Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy tells the warden that Carminefalconetomwilkinson isn't faking and should be moved to the Asylum.  The following night Batman pays a visit to Jamesgordongaryoldman and tells him that only half the drugs brought in on Carminefalconetomwilkinson.s ship were to be sent to the dealers. He and Jamesgordongaryoldman conclude that it would help to interrogate Arnoldflassmarkboonejunior, who Batman identified at the docks making his escape. Arnoldflassmarkboonejunior is pickpocketing money from a falafel vendor on the street. As he walks away into a narrow alley, he springs a trap and is flown upsidedown to the rooftops, suspended from Batman's grapple cord. Threatened by Batman, Arnoldflassmarkboonejunior tells him about the bear and rabbit shipments, that the rabbits make their way to the Narrows, and that there is some other substance hidden in the rabbits. Batman returns Arnoldflassmarkboonejunior to the ground and disappears. Meanwhile, Racheldawes.s boss, Carlfinch, is shot and killed by an assassin disguised as a police officer when he finds Wayneenterprisesceowilliamearlerutgerhauer. missing microwave emitter in one of Carminefalconetomwilkinson.s containers.  Batman makes his way back to the Narrows and finds an apartment stuffed with cuddly rabbit toys stuffed with the drugs. At that moment Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy and two of his men enter and Batman hides. At Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s orders, the thugs douse gasoline around the apartment. Batman comes out of hiding and beats the two thugs. Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy. wearing his burlap mask, emerges and gases him with the same gas he used on Carminefalconetomwilkinson. using gas cylinders hidden in his shirt cuffs. Batman falls helplessly to the floor and scrambles around hallucinating bats and his parents' death. Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy douses him in gasoline while taunting him. He then lights a cigarette lighter and throws it at Batman's chest, causing his suit to burst into flames. Batman throws himself out of the window into the rain swept streets of the Narrows and hits the street with a thud. Desperately rolling around he puts out the flames, to the shock of the onlookers, and then stumbles about trying to get his grapple gun. He fires the gun upwards and is carried to to a nearby rooftop. From there he grabs his communicator and calls for Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine to help him. He's still suffering from the hallucinations. Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine arrives and takes Batman into the car and drives him to the Manor. Batman tells him to 'take poison.blood.blood poison', before passing out.  Hearing his father's voice asking 'Brucewayne. why do we fall, Brucewayne.ayne wakes up in his bed as if from a nightmare. Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine reveals that he has been unconscious for two days and that today is his birthday  'many happy returns.' Brucewayne.ayne tells him that he has felt the effects of whatever Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy used on him before but not as strongly. Luciusfoxmorganfreeman comes in and warns Brucewayne.ayne against 'hanging out in the wrong nightclubs' and after making a point of how hard he has worked to save Brucewayne. explains that he has created an antidote to the toxic gas. When asked if he could make any more of the antidote, Luciusfoxmorganfreeman expresses concern that Brucewayne.ayne is willing to 'go back to the same club' and gas himself again, but he promises to bring what he has. He also explains that the antidote will inoculate people against the toxin.  Racheldawes.awes turns up at the Manor to give Brucewayne.ayne his birthday present and to apologize that she can't make his birthday party that night. Her boss has been missing for two days she jokes bitterly about searching the river for his body. She cuts away from the conversation as she get a text message informing her that Carminefalconetomwilkinson has been moved from prison to Arkham on Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s orders. She rushes off to challenge Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s decision. Knowing the she is in danger from Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy. Brucewayne.ayne changes to Batman, despite the guests who will soon arrive for his party.  Racheldawes.awes arrives at Arkham and watches Carminefalconetomwilkinson  now genuinely insane  mumbling the word Scarecrow over and over. When she questions Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy on the meaning of scarecrow, Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy explains that a significant number of inmates focus their paranoia on an external tormentor, such as a scarecrow. Both are unaware that Batman is listening from outside. When Racheldawes.awes demands that Carminefalconetomwilkinson be evaluated by Dr. Lehmann, the court's psychiatrist, Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy leads her into the lower floors of the Asylum, where he reveals inmates who are pouring a toxin into the water pipes below. Racheldawes.awes runs for it but Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy catches her, now wearing his burlap mask, and gasses her with his toxin. A terrified Racheldawes.awes is interrogated by Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy in the basement. Suddenly the lights go out. Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy acknowledges that the Batman has arrived. He tells the guards not to worry about Racheldawes.awes as she has been given a concentrated dose and will not last long, but to phone the police. He explains that the police can't stop the toxin, but Batman might  unless the police stop him first.  Although Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s henchmen are prepared, Batman appears in the basement and overcomes them all easily. He gasses Jonathancranecillianmurphy with his own toxin. He interrogates Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy. who lets slip that he is working for Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s Alghul before passing out. Batman picks up Racheldawes.awes and takes her high up on the landing before the huge stairway at Arkham's entrance. The police arrive. Not willing to wait for backup in the form of a SWAT team as Arnoldflassmarkboonejunior is, Jamesgordongaryoldman goes into the building and is grabbed by Batman. The SWAT teams arrive. Batman explains to Jamesgordongaryoldman that he needs to get Racheldawes.awes to his hideout so he can give her the antidote to the toxin. But Batman can't escape the SWAT team while carrying Racheldawes. so he asks Jamesgordongaryoldman carry her to the alley outside on the Narrows side. He then activates a device in the heel of his boot, which emits a highpitched scream. Jamesgordongaryoldman takes Racheldawes.awes down the stairway as the SWAT crew raids the building. As they begin to set up, a huge swarm of bats breaks into the building in response to Batman's signal. With bats everywhere distracting the SWAT officers, Batman drops from the stairway using his cape to land safely. He breaks into the prisoners' area, courteously apologizing for disturbing the inmates, and uses explosives to break outside. There he meets Jamesgordongaryoldman and takes Racheldawes.awes from him.  Batman refuses further help from Jamesgordongaryoldman, knowing he can't take him too, and gets into the Tumbler. He hurries Racheldawes.awes back to the Manor, with police cars and helicopters in hot pursuit. A very dramatic car chase ensues as Batman weaves through parking garage ramps, over church roofs, underground tunnels, and highways, destroying multiple police cars with evasive manuevers and caltrops to blow out their tires, and makes it back to the cave. He finds that Luciusfoxmorganfreeman has delivered three vials of the toxin antidote, one of which he uses to save Racheldawes.  Jamesgordongaryoldman gets a report from the detectives studying the toxin in the water. Gotham's whole water system is laced with the stuff it must have taken weeks to prepare the material. No one has noticed anything up to now because the toxin apparently has no effect unless it's inhaled.  Meanwhile, Racheldawes.awes wakes up inside the cave and Batman explains what has happened. He tells her he is going to sedate her and when she wakes up she will be at home with the two remaining vials of the antidote. She must get them to Jamesgordongaryoldman  one for him to inoculate himself and one for mass production. He sedates her and gets changed for his party.  Brucewayne.ayne tells Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine about Racheldawes.awes and asks him to take her home. He goes to the party downstairs to a chorus of Happy Birthday. He meets Wayneenterprisesceowilliamearlerutgerhauer.eowilliamearlerutgerhauer ,who tells him that the stock offering was a success the buyers were mostly trusts and brokerages. Brucewayne.ayne finds Luciusfoxmorganfreeman and thanks him for the antidote vials that he delivered. Brucewayne.ayne then tells him what has happened. Luciusfoxmorganfreeman interrupts that the water won't help disperse an inhalant. He stops and thinks. He says the stolen the microwave emitter could vaporize all the water in the mains, releasing the toxin. He reveals that he has been fired by Wayneenterprisesceowilliamearlerutgerhauer.eowilliamearlerutgerhauer for asking too many questions about it. Brucewayne.ayne asks him to break into Wayneenterprisesceowilliamearlerutgerhauer.eowilliamearlerutgerhauer and begin making more antidote.  Brucewayne.ayne is carted off unwillingly to another section of the party by Mrs. Delane. When she insists that he must meet a man called Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s Alghul, she suddenly has Brucewayne.s attention. As the figure turns around, it is clearly not Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s. Brucewayne.ayne whispers that he watched Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s die. A familiar voice from behind asks 'but is Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s Alghul immortal Are his methods supernatural' Brucewayne.ayne turns around to the sight of Henriducardliamneeson. Brucewayne.ayne thinks slowly before figuring out that Henriducardliamneeson.iamneeson is the true Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s and the man Brucewayne.ayne fought back at the League of Shadows HQ was a decoy. Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s muses that they both have double identities. He then lectures Brucewayne.ayne on the weakness of compassion. Even though Brucewayne.ayne had saved his life, he will still destroy Gotham.  Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s gives Brucewayne.ayne a chance to get the innocent guests out of the house, which he does by acting drunk and insulting them. After Brucewayne.ayne demands his guests leave him in peace, he and Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s walk together. Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s explains that Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s fear toxin is derived from the blue flowers back in China and that he found a way of weaponising it. Jonathancranecillianmurphy. however, is not a member of the League of Shadows and his idea of the plan was that they would hold the city to ransom. Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s explains that Gotham must be destroyed because of how corrupt it is  which he illustrates by explaining that the League of Shadows has infiltrated every level of its infrastructure. The scene is intercut with a series of shots showing members of the League disguised as officials and police officers releasing people from Arkham  including Victorzsaztimbooth and Jonathancranecillianmurphy. who, still under the effects of his own fear toxin, only mumbles 'scarecrow.'  Back at the Manor, Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s offers Brucewayne.ayne one last chance to join and help the League, which Brucewayne.ayne refuses, claiming that there are still good people in the city and that Gotham isn't beyond saving. Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s nods to other League members, who set fire to the mansion. Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s explains that Gotham has been attacked by the League before through economics, which caused the depression when Brucewayne.ayne was a child. Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s hoped that the city would destroy itself through the unequal distribution of wealth, however certain members of the rich families, such as Brucewayne.s parents, donated money to help Gotham recover. But Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s is back to the finish the job. With this Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s attacks Brucewayne.ayne and pushes him in the way of a falling beam which pins an unconscious Brucewayne.ayne to the floor. With Waynemanor burning around him Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s says 'Justice is balance. You burned down my house and left me for dead. Consider us even.'  Meanwhile the Narrows is in a state of panic as hundreds of rapists and murders are freed from the Asylum. Racheldawes.awes wakes up in her bed with the two vials of antidote.  Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine arrives back at Waynemanor and uses a golf club to knock out a League member guarding the house. Praying that the man was not a member of the fire department, Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine rushes into the burning house and rouses Brucewayne. Managing to free himself, Brucewayne.ayne is led to the cave by Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine as the house collapses.  Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine inspects Brucewayne.ayne for injuries as Brucewayne.ayne is torn about the destruction of his father's house. Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine tells him that the Brucewayne legacy is more than bricks and mortar and quotes Thomaswayne 'Why do we fall, sir So that we can learn to pick ourselves up.'  Police in full strength are moving from central Gotham across the bridge to the Narrows island. Racheldawes. being a D.A., is allowed to pass. She finds Jamesgordongaryoldman and gives him the antidote. Jamesgordongaryoldman explains that they are going to raise the bridges to the island and they need to get Racheldawes.awes off before they do.  One last SWAT van is allowed over to the Narrows secretly carrying Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s, a handful of his henchmen and the microwave emitter. A train, on the overhead Brucewayne line is stopped by the League where the Microwave emitter is being prepared to be hoisted up to it. While the drawbridges are raised, Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s sets off the machine causing all of the water in the pipes below the streets to vaporize and blow the pipes open in the Narrows. The toxin is released and affects everyone in the Narrows including the escaped convicts and the police alike. Jamesgordongaryoldman inoculates himself with the antidote and finds a fearful Arnoldflassmarkboonejunior ready to shoot two innocent and equally frightened teenagers. Jamesgordongaryoldman knocks him out and handcuffs him to a railing. Meanwhile the few remaining people of the Gotham Police force wonder what is going on.  The Narrows begins to tear itself apart. In the streets, people violently attack one another. Racheldawes.awes is confronted by Jonathancranecillianmurphy on a horse whose previous rider, a riot cop, is dragged behind. Wearing his burlap mask, Jonathancranecillianmurphy announces to her his new alias, 'the Scarecrow.'  Jamesgordongaryoldman requests reinforcements but to his dismay he is told that all of the riot police are already on the island and there is no one left to send. Suddenly the Tumbler shoots across the gap from Gotham to the Narrows. Batman explains to Jamesgordongaryoldman that Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s intends to use the train to carry the microwave emitter to Waynetower. When the train reaches Waynetower at the center of Gotham, the microwave emitter will vaporise the contents of all the water mains, covering the whole city with the toxin. He asks Jamesgordongaryoldman for help and gives him the key to the Tumbler.  The Scarecrow is about to run down Racheldawes. She fires her taser and hits him in the face. His horse carries him away screaming. Racheldawes.awes is surrounded by a dozen inmates from Arkham, including the serial killer Mr. Zasz, carrying a knife. Batman jumps from above them, cracking Zasz over the head, picks up Racheldawes.awes and carries her to a rooftop and to safety. As Batman leaves her she asks him who he is. He replies 'It's not who I am underneath, but what I do that defines me'  quoting her own words back at her. She says 'Brucewayne. as he jumps from the rooftop and uses his memory cloth cape as a glider. As he seemingly flies in the air, the fearful people below shriek in terror as their hallucinations warp the sight of him. Jamesgordongaryoldman orders the main bridge to be lowered and starts up the Tumbler.  Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s is overseeing the madness below as his men fasten the microwave emitter into place on board the train. He spots Batman gliding towards him. Batman lands on the train platform. Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s comments that he took his advice on theatricality a bit too literally and boards the train. Four members of the League appear and prevent Batman from pursuing. During the fight, Batman tries to uses his grapple hook to secure himself to the train but it is knocked out of his hand. The fight takes all participants down to the street floor where Batman manages to overcome all four League members. However he is ganged up on by dozens of terrified and angry citizens. As Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s starts the train overhead, Batman finds his grapple gun and fires it at the train. He's dragged behind the train. Jamesgordongaryoldman meanwhile is following the Tumbler's GPS system toward Waynetower.  As the bridges are lowered, Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s's train breaks the water pipes, releasing the toxic gas. The Tumbler is not far behind. Batman manages to pull himself to the train. He smashes through one of the train windows and engages an infuriated Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s. Batman takes Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s sword and breaks it in two with his gauntlets. Distracting Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s, he stabs the sword into the braking controls of the train. Jamesgordongaryoldman arrives at Waynetower. He arms the Tumbler's defense systems and fires missiles at a train rail foundation. With the train approaching Waynetower, Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s gets the upper hand over Batman and taunts him 'Don't be afraid, Brucewayne. You are just an ordinary man in a cape. That's why you couldn't fight injustice, that's why you can't stop this train.' Batman replies, 'who said anything about stopping it' Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s looks up and notices a half of his sword sticking in the brake control. As this happens Jamesgordongaryoldman destroys the foundation and breaks the railway line. With this distraction, Batman regains the upper hand and pins Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s. Batman explains that he won't kill Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s  but he doesn't have to save him, either. He blows out the back end of the train car, throws himself out, and glides away. Jonathancranecillianmurphy.s can only look up to watch the train propel itself off the line and into the street below. The microwave emitter gets damaged by the impact and explodes, destroying the whole train.  The next day, Wayneenterprisesceowilliamearlerutgerhauer.eowilliamearlerutgerhauer arrives at Wayneenterprisesceowilliamearlerutgerhauer.eowilliamearlerutgerhauer to chair a meeting. He'd shocked to find that the meeting has already begun  and is led by Luciusfoxmorganfreeman, who reveals he has Wayneenterprisesceowilliamearlerutgerhauer.eowilliamearlerutgerhauer's job.  Brucewayne.ayne is in the back of his car reading a newspaper Batman has made the front page and Brucewayne.ayne is on page 8 under the headline 'Drunken Billionaire Burns Down Home.' He takes a call from Wayneenterprisesceowilliamearlerutgerhauer.eowilliamearlerutgerhauer, who asks on what authority Brucewayne.ayne can decide who runs Wayneenterprisesceowilliamearlerutgerhauer. Brucewayne.ayne states that he is the owner. Wayneenterprisesceowilliamearlerutgerhauer.eowilliamearlerutgerhauer reminds him that the company has gone public. Brucewayne.ayne explains that he bought most of the shares through various trusts and brokerages. Luciusfoxmorganfreeman agrees with Brucewayne.s words, and asks Wayneenterprisesceowilliamearlerutgerhauer.eowilliamearlerutgerhauer, Didn't you get the memo in reference to the words Wayneenterprisesceowilliamearlerutgerhauer.eowilliamearlerutgerhauer told him when firing him from AS.  Back at Waynemanor, Brucewayne.ayne is nailing boards over the old well in the garden when he is approached by Racheldawes. He apologizes for not telling her about his identity earlier. She apologizes for slapping him the day Chill died and for the horrible things that she said before he disappeared. Brucewayne.ayne tells her that what she said was true and that he was just a coward with a gun. He thanks her. She says that when she heard that he was back she began to hope. She moves closer towards him and kisses him. She then explains that she then found out about his mask  his actual face. She explains that his true face is the cowl of Batman and that the boy she loved long ago never came back. But maybe one day they can be together when Batman is no longer needed. Brucewayne.ayne nods. Racheldawes.awes tells him that she was wrong and that Brucewayne.s father would be proud of him, just as she is.  Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine is walking through the rubble of the Manor and Racheldawes.awes asks Brucewayne.ayne about what he will do. Brucewayne.ayne replies that he'll rebuild it just the way it was before. Racheldawes.awes turns to leave. Alfredpennyworthmichaelcaine wonders if it's a good time to improve the foundations of the southeast corner. Brucewayne.ayne agrees and they walk off.  That night, Batman meets Jamesgordongaryoldman, who reveals that he has recently been made a lieutenant. Jamesgordongaryoldman has also made a version of the signal that Batman had made with Carminefalconetomwilkinson. Jamesgordongaryoldman talks about the escalation between law enforcement methods and criminal methods such as the police wearing Kevlar leading to criminals buying armorpiercing ammunition. He expresses concern that the city's dependence on Batman may have negative consequences. Jamesgordongaryoldman uses a recent case as an example. A criminal with a taste for theatrics has killed two people. The suspect leaves a calling card at the scene of each crime. Jamesgordongaryoldman gives Batman the evidence a  Joker playing card The Dark Knight. Batman says that he will look into it. Batman then assures Jamesgordongaryoldman that they can make Gotham safe again and he jumps from the roof and glides away.