In the 13th Century England, after several years of political unrest in Scotland, the land is open to an invasion from the south. King Edwardii of England  has decided to conquer Scotland. After invading Scotland and winning the war by 1280 A.D., Edwardii  grants areas of land in Scotland to his nobility which they are to rule, along with the traditional privileges. One of the privileges granted to English lords ruling Scotland was Primaenoctis, the right for the lord to take a newly married Scottish woman into his bed and spend the wedding night with the bride. Kingedwardlongshanks' plan is to breed out the population of Scotland.  In the northern Scottish town of Lanark, a young boy named Williamwallace, follows his father and brother to a meeting of Scottish nobles, arranged by Kingedwardlongshanks himself. When Wallacesenior.enior and his older son arrive at the meeting place, they see that the Scots have all been hanged, along with their servants. Williamwallace also sees the hanging corpses and panics when his father finds him.  Wallacesenior.enior attends another meeting where it's decided that they will go to war with the English. Williamwallace wishes to accompany his father and brother, however, his father tells him to stay home and mind the farm. A few days later, Campbell Senior, Williamwallace's best friend's  father arrives at the farm. Williamwallace's father is killed in battle, as was his brother. Following the funeral, Williamwallace is given a thistle by a young girl. Williamwallace's uncle, Argyle, arrives on horseback and tells Williamwallace that he'll be leaving home with him. That night Williamwallace and Argyle listen to bagpipers play a tribute for Williamwallace's dead family. Argyle tells Williamwallace that the pipes are outlawed. He also sees Williamwallace's interest in his sword and tells Williamwallace that he'll give him a traditional education and teach him how to fight later.  Ten years later, the adult Williamwallace  returns home to his father's farm. He reconnects with his old friend Hamish. At a community wedding, Wallacesenior.enior sees the local magistrate take the bride for himself according to Primaenoctis. Wallacesenior.enior also falls in love with his childhood sweetheart Murronmacclannough.acclannough , the young girl who gave him the thistle at his father's funeral, and they marry in secret so that she does not have to spend a night in the bed of the English lord.  The Scots continue to live under the iron fist of Kingedwardlongshanks' cruel laws. Wallacesenior.enior intends on living as a farmer and avoiding involvement in the ongoing troubles in Scotland. When an English soldier tries to rape Murronmacclannough. Wallacesenior.enior fights off several soldiers and the two attempt to flee, but the village sheriff captures Murronmacclannough.acclannough and publicly executes her by slitting her throat, proclaiming an assault on one of the King's soldiers is the same as an assault on the King himself. In retribution, Wallacesenior.enior returns to the village, seemingly ready to surrender. He attacks his captors and joins several villagers as they slaughter the English garrison. Wallacesenior.enior himself brutally executes the sheriff in the same manner that he executed Murronmacclannough.  Following their triumph, Wallacesenior.enior is compelled to fight against the English who have taken over his homeland and enslaved himself and his countrymen and women. In response to Wallacesenior.s exploits, the commoners of Scotland rise in revolt against England. As his legend spreads, hundreds of Scots from the surrounding clans volunteer to join Wallacesenior.s militia. Wallacesenior.enior leads his army through a series of successful battles against the English, including the Battle of Stirling Bridge  where Wallacesenior.s Scots are outnumbered by the English army.  Afterward, the victourious Scots invade northern England and sack of the city of York and kill its lord, the nephew of Kingedwardlongshanks himself. During his campaign, Wallacesenior.enior seeks the assistance of young Robertthebruce , son of the leper noble Robertthebruce the Elder  and the chief contender for the Scottish crown. However, Robertthebruce is dominated by his scheming father , who wishes to secure the throne of Scotland to his son by submitting to the English, despite his son's growing admiration for Wallacesenior.enior and his cause.  King Edwardlongshanks, worried enough by the threat of the rebellion, poses to send the French princess Isabelle  to try and negotiate peace with Wallacesenior. Princess Isabelle is the wife of Prince Edwardii  the Prince of Wales and Kingedwardlongshanks' oldest son. The King sends her because his son is a weakwilled man and would not be imposing enough to negotiate, but she is a strong leader.  Kingedwardlongshanks also knows that if Wallacesenior.enior kills her, the French king will declare war on Wallacesenior.enior in revenge. Wallacesenior.enior rejects the offer of a title, an estate and a chest of gold that Kingedwardlongshanks has told Isabelle to offer and continues with the fighting. However, during their conversation, Isabelle tells Wallacesenior.enior that she understands his suffering and that she has heard about the death of his wife. They share a moment of understanding and she becomes charmed by him.  For Wallacesenior.enior to continue fighting, he needs the Scottish nobility on his side, contributing troops and food. But Wallacesenior.enior has problems convincing the nobility that they have a real chance to take back their country from the English. The nobles think that the Scots will lose and the English will treat them even worse than they are treated now. Also, the nobles are getting money from England and live quite well. Some of them are more concerned that this money continues to come and that their standard of living continues to be the best instead of looking after their people.  Robertthebruce is particularly torn over what he sees as his duty to the people to free them and what his father tells him to do to keep in good with the English and earn his crown.  Two Scottish nobles, Lochlan and Mornay, planning to submit to Kingedwardlongshanks, betray Wallacesenior.enior at the bloody Battle of Falkirk the following year on July 22, 1298 as a new and larger English army, led by Kingedwardlongshanks himself, invades Scotland to crush the Scots rebellion once and for all. The Scots lose the battle due to Kingedwardlongshanks' clever use of his longbowmen and his massive reserves which outnumber the Scots. Wallacesenior.enior nearly loses his life when, in a last desperate act, he furiously breaks ranks and charges toward Kingedwardlongshanks to kill him personally. He is intercepted by one of the king's hooded lancers and knocked from his horse, but gains the upper hand when the lancer dismounts to examine the fallen Wallacesenior. Wallacesenior.enior is set to kill the lancer, but upon taking the lancer's helmet off, discovers his opponent is Robertthebruce. Robertthebruce is able to get Wallacesenior.enior to safety just before the English can capture him, but laments his actions for some time to come because of what Wallacesenior.enior has stood for, which he betrayed.  Over the next seven years, Wallacesenior.enior goes into hiding and wages a protracted guerrilla war against the English, rallying more followers to his cause. In order to repay Mornay and Lochlan for their betrayals, Wallacesenior.enior brutally murders both men Mornay by crushing his skull with a flail in his bed chamber and Lochlan by slitting his throat during a meeting of the nobles at Edinburgh and dumping his body on their banquet table.  In 1305, as Wallacesenior.s guerrilla war continues, Princess Isabelle of France meets with Wallacesenior.enior as the English king's emissary. Having heard of him beforehand and after meeting him in person, she becomes enamored with him and secretly assists him in his fight. Eventually, she and Wallacesenior.enior make love, after which she becomes pregnant.  Robertthebruce contacts Wallacesenior.enior to set up a meeting, where the Robertthebruce intends to declare his intent to join Wallacesenior.enior and commit troops to the war. Still believing there is some good in the nobility of his country, Wallacesenior.enior eventually agrees to meet with Robertthebruce in Edinburgh. However, Robertthebruce's father has conspired with the other nobles to set a trap and Wallacesenior.enior is captured. He is beaten until he is unconscious and then handed over to the English. Learning of his father's treachery, the younger Robertthebruce is told that the price of his crown was the the capture and extradition of Wallacesenior.enior himself. The younger Robertthebruce disowns his father.  In London, Wallacesenior.enior is brought before the English magistrates and tried for high treason. He denies the charges, declaring that he had never accepted Edwardii as his King. The court responds by sentencing him to be purified by pain. After the sentencing, a shaken Wallacesenior.enior prays for strength during the upcoming torture and rejects a painkiller brought to him by Isabelle. Afterward, the princess goes to her husband and fatherinlaw, begging them to show mercy. Prince Edwardii, speaking for the now terminally ill and mute King Edwardlongshanks, tells his wife that the king will take pleasure in Wallacesenior.s death. Isabelle verbally lambastes her husband and fatherinlaw, then informs the weakened Kingedwardlongshanks of her pregnancy with Wallacesenior.s child and swears that Edwardii will not last very much longer as king. The mute Kingedwardlongshanks is shaken and unable to tell his son of her plans.  Wallacesenior.enior is taken to a square at the Tower of London for his torture and execution by beheading. He refuses to submit to the king and beg for mercy despite being half hanged, racked, castrated, and disemboweled publicly. Awed by Wallacesenior.s courage, the Londoners watching the execution begin to yell for mercy, and the magistrate offers him one final chance for mercy. Using the last strength in his body, the defiant Williamwallace instead shouts, Freedom Just as he is about to be beheaded, Wallacesenior.enior sees an image of Murronmacclannough.acclannough in the crowd smiling at him, before the blow is struck.  Epilogue. On June 24, 1314, nearly nine years after Wallacesenior.s death, Robertthebruce, now a Scottish king and still guiltridden over his involvement Wallacesenior.s betrayal, leads a strong Scottish army and faces a ceremonial line of English troops at the fields of Bannockburn where the English under their new king, Edwardii , are to accept him as the rightful ruler of Scotland. Just as he is about to cross the field to accept the English endorsement, the Robertthebruce turns back to his troops. Invoking Wallacesenior.s memory, he urges his charges to fight with him as they did with Wallacesenior. Robertthebruce then turns toward the English troop line and leads a charge toward the English, who were not expecting to fight.  The film ends with Melgibson's voice intoning that the Scottish won their freedom in this battle.