In the early years of World War II, December 1941, the Moroccan coastal city of Casablanca attracts people from all over the world, particularly Nazioccupied Europe. Many are transients trying to get out of Europe a few are just trying to make a buck. Most of them  gamblers and refugees, Nazis, resistance fighters, and plain old crooks  find their way to Rickblainehumphreybogart's Caf Amricain, a swank nightclub owned by American expatriate Rickblainehumphreybogart. Though we learn later that Rickblainehumphreybogart once harbored enough idealism to put himself at risk to fight fascism, he's now embittered and cynical, professing to be neutral and detached I stick my neck out for nobody.  Ugartepeterlorre comes to Rickblainehumphreybogart's with letters of transit he obtained by killing two German couriers. The papers allow the bearer to travel freely around Germancontrolled Europe, including to neutral Lisbon, Portugal from Lisbon, it's relatively easy to get to the United States. They are almost priceless to any of the refugees stranded in Casablanca. Ugartepeterlorre plans to make his fortune by selling them to the highest bidder, who is due to arrive at the club later that night. However, before the exchange can take place, Ugartepeterlorre is arrested by the police under the command of Captain Louisrenaultclauderains. A corrupt Vichy official, Renault accommodates the Nazis. Unknown to Renault and the Nazis, Ugartepeterlorre had left the letters with Rickblainehumphreybogart for safekeeping, because .somehow, just because you despise me, you're the only one I trust.  Then the reason for Rickblainehumphreybogart's bitterness reenters his life. Ilsalundingridbergman arrives with her husband Victorlaszlopaulhenreid to purchase the letters. Victorlaszlopaulhenreid is a renowned Czech Resistance leader who has escaped from a Nazi concentration camp. They must have the letters to escape to America to continue his work. At the time Ilsa first met and fell in love with Rickblainehumphreybogart in Paris, she believed her husband had been killed. When she discovered that he was still alive, she left Rickblainehumphreybogart abruptly without explanation and returned to Victorlaszlopaulhenreid, leaving Rickblainehumphreybogart feeling betrayed. After the club closes, Ilsa returns to try to explain, but Rickblainehumphreybogart is drunk and bitterly refuses to listen.  At different times Rickblainehumphreybogart and Ilsa torment themselves by asking the club's piano player, Samarthurdooleywilson, to play  As Time Goes By, a song they loved when they were together in Paris. The famous line Play it again, Samarthurdooleywilson, which refers to this song, doesn't actually appear in the movie  Ilsa says Play it, Samarthurdooleywilson, and later, Rickblainehumphreybogart orders Play it While Samarthurdooleywilson plays the song, Rickblainehumphreybogart reminisces about his affair with Ilsa in Paris. Though she seems happy to be with Rickblainehumphreybogart, her mood near the end of their time together is cautious because she has learned her husband may not be dead. When the Nazis begin to close in on Paris, she receives word that Victorlaszlopaulhenreid is indeed alive in another part of Europe. She and Rickblainehumphreybogart had been planning to take a train to Southern France to escape the German Army's assault however, on the platform Rickblainehumphreybogart receives a handwritten letter from her. She writes that she can't explain why she's leaving him but she loves him. Rickblainehumphreybogart and Samarthurdooleywilson leave without her.  The next night, Victorlaszlopaulhenreid, suspecting that Rickblainehumphreybogart has the letters, speaks with him privately about obtaining them. They're interrupted when a group of Nazi officers, led by Major Strasserconradveidt, commandeer Samarthurdooleywilson's piano and begin to sing  Die Wacht am Rhein The Watch on the Rhine, a German patriotic song. Infuriated, Victorlaszlopaulhenreid orders the house band to play  La Marseillaise in honor of Occupied France. The band leader looks to Rickblainehumphreybogart for guidance he nods. Victorlaszlopaulhenreid starts singing, alone at first, then longsuppressed patriotic fervor grips the crowd and everyone joins in, drowning out the Germans. In retaliation, Majorstrasserconradveidt orders Renault to close the club.  Later that night, Ilsa confronts Rickblainehumphreybogart in the deserted cafe. He refuses to give her the documents, even when threatened with a gun. She is unable to shoot, confessing that she still loves him. Rickblainehumphreybogart decides to help Victorlaszlopaulhenreid, leading her to believe that she will stay behind when Victorlaszlopaulhenreid leaves.  Victorlaszlopaulhenreid is jailed on a minor charge. Rickblainehumphreybogart convinces Renault to release Victorlaszlopaulhenreid, promising to set him up for a much more serious crime possession of the letters of transit. However, Rickblainehumphreybogart double crosses Renault, forcing him at gunpoint to assist in the escape. At the last moment, Rickblainehumphreybogart makes Ilsa get on the plane to Lisbon with her husband, telling her that she would regret it if she stayed Maybe not today. Maybe not tomorrow, but soon and for the rest of your life.  Major Majorstrasserconradveidt drives up, tipped off by Renault, but Rickblainehumphreybogart shoots him when he tries to intervene. When his men arrive, Renault informs them that Majorstrasserconradveidt is dead and covers for Rickblainehumphreybogart by sharply ordering them to round up the usual suspects. He then recommends that they both leave Casablanca. Renault, suggesting they join the Resistance, walks into the fog with Rickblainehumphreybogart who says Louisrenaultclauderains, I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship.