Martinscorsese's 1995 film Casino follows the life of Samacerothstein  as he runs the mobowned Tangiers casino. The movie also deals with his relationship with his friend Nickysantoro.antoro  and the love of his life Ginger .  The Chicago Outfit and its boss, Remogaggi , order Andystone , the head of the Teamsters' Pension Fund, to give real estate hustler Philipgreen  more than 60,000,000 to fund the Tangiers Casino. While in the public eye, Philipgreen is the president, he however, also takes orders from Andystone. Each month, the Outfit sends Johnnance  over to Las Vegas to the casino to skim millions from the casino's winnings with the help of the men in the counting room. Johnnance then makes the trip to Kansas City once a month where he meets the Outfit bosses in a grocery store run by Artiepiscano , the KC underboss. That's where the bosses collect their money since it would be illegal for them to be any closer to Las Vegas itself.  The bosses want Samacerothstein to run the Tangiers casino due to his great reputation as a gambling handicapper. Reluctant at first, Samacerothstein eventually agrees. For help, Samacerothstein has his old casino friend Billysherbert  hired as the casino manager. The bosses send Nickysantoro.antoro, Samacerothstein.s childhood friend, and Nickysantoro.s righthand man Frankmarino  over to watch over Samacerothstein and to make sure the skim goes alright. While Samacerothstein is kindhearted, Nickysantoro.antoro is a volatile and dangerous psychopath who will kill anyone he sees as a threat. After a man insults Samacerothstein. Nickysantoro.antoro takes his pen and stabs him in the neck repeatedly. Samacerothstein also shows his coldhearted side when he catches two cheaters and has a guard take one's hand and smash it multiple times with a hammer.  Samacerothstein.s life takes a turn when he falls in love with Ginger, a hustler who works the casinos. Samacerothstein narrates that the only thing in her life she couldn't control was her pimp boyfriend Lesterdiamond . But Samacerothstein still convinces her to have his baby, Amy, and to marry him. All is well at the wedding, until Samacerothstein catches Ginger crying and talking to Lesterdiamond on the phone, telling him that she still loves him. She tells Samacerothstein that Lesterdiamond's just an old friend and Samacerothstein is convinced that part of her life is over. To fulfil his promise to her, that if the marriage didn't work she'd still be okay moneywise, Samacerothstein buys her around a million dollars worth of jewelry and also travels to L.A. where he puts 2 million away for ransom in a safety deposit box. He gives the only key to Ginger, putting all his trust into her.  While Samacerothstein is running the casino, Nickysantoro.antoro is performing his own line of work. He starts hustling and shaking down bookies and forms a crew in the casinos to rip them off. Samacerothstein catches on to him and tells him to be careful, that gaming agents are all over him. Nickysantoro.antoro ignores him, and by doing that, gets himself put into the black book, banning him from all casinos in Las Vegas. Nickysantoro.antoro decides on another way to make a living. He brings over his brother Dominick and some old friends for his crew. He opens up his own jewelry store, the Gold Rush, but at night, performs burglaries in both houses and stores. He also places some of the money in some legitimate businesses, like his restaurant, run by Dominick. Every couple of weeks he send of Frankmarino to the bosses with a small piece of what he makes in order to keep them happy. He also performs jobs for the bosses, like killing a couple of men who shot up one of Remo's diners.  At the Tangiers, Samacerothstein fires floor manager Donward after a possible scam that he didn't detect. While Philipgreen begs Samacerothstein to let him have his job back, being that he's the County Commissioner's brotherinlaw, Samacerothstein doesn't back down. The Commissioner himself comes in to ask for Samacerothstein to reconsider, but Samacerothstein still stands by his decision. The Commissioner states that its a bad decision for Samacerothstein and then leaves.  Back at home, problems are already starting between Samacerothstein and Ginger. Ginger asks Samacerothstein for 25,000 and gets defensive when Samacerothstein asks why. Samacerothstein has Nickysantoro.antoro follow her to the bank where she withdraws her money. She then goes to a restaurant where she meets Lesterdiamond and gives him the money. Samacerothstein then enters and sits down with them, telling Lesterdiamond to stay away from her. Samacerothstein then takes Ginger outside where she sees Samacerothstein.s hotel men severely beating Lesterdiamond, while Nickysantoro.antoro watches. Ginger later goes to Nickysantoro.antoro asking why Samacerothstein had to do that. Nickysantoro.antoro states the Samacerothstein loves her very much and she should try working it out with him. Samacerothstein also wants her to cut down on her drinking and drug abuse and get some help, for Amy's sake. Ginger agrees.  Despite all the problems, the money in the counting room keeps going to the bosses successfully. The Outfit, however, finds out that some of the men in the counting room have been skimming the skim itself. When they confront Johnnance about it, he says he wants them to go easy on his men. Unconvinced, the bosses send Artiepiscano over to make sure no one rips them off. Artiepiscano, however, starts complaining about his trips to Vegas, claiming it's money coming out of his pocket. Things aren't any better in Vegas, when an old partner of Philipgreen  comes into the picture and demands some money from the Tangiers. When Philipgreen stalls her, she takes her case to court. The outcome of the court hearing is that Philipgreen must open the books and show where he got the funding. Gaggi, furious over the outcome, sends Nickysantoro.antoro to take her out of the picture. The police start looking at Philipgreen as well .  Due to the problems with Philipgreen, Samacerothstein now starts giving interviews stating that he runs the casino only when Philipgreen is absent. A magazine publisher takes it out of context, bringing up the fact that Samacerothstein doesn't own a gaming license. The media starts speculating whether Samacerothstein.s friendship with Nickysantoro.antoro could affect his license hearing, although he was promised a fair one from the senator. After Nickysantoro.antoro threatens Samacerothstein.s banker, Samacerothstein tells him that he needs to calm down with the way he's been doing things. The bosses also agree, Gaggi tells Frankmarino to tell Nickysantoro.antoro to handle things quieter. Nickysantoro.antoro starts showing his contempt for the Outfit and starts getting aggravated with Samacerothstein. He also starts figuring out ways to throw off the detectives who have constant surveillance on him, such as radar and switching cars multiple times. Samacerothstein realizes what Nickysantoro.antoro really intends to do overthrow Gaggi and take control of everything.  Back in KC, Artiepiscano is once again complaining about another trip he has to take to Vegas to his brotherinlaw and his mother' claiming it will cost him more out of his own pocket. Despite the bosses warnings not to do it, Artiepiscano starts keeping records of his trips, including names, dates, and addresses. He also expresses his belief that Johnnance and the guys in the counting room are ripping them off. What he doesn't know is that the FBI has an old wire on the store involving an old homicide and has been collecting evidence in their investigation of the Outfit.  At Samacerothstein.s license hearing, the senator drops a bombshell motion denying Samacerothstein his license, despite his promise of a fair hearing. The County Commissioner had apparently pulled some strings. After arguing and yelling at the senator, who denies any contact with Samacerothstein. Samacerothstein is taken away by his associates and lawyers he is now out of gaming. While wondering what to do with Samacerothstein. Andystone suggests to Gaggi that he could run the casino with a different job title. Gaggi agrees, as long as its quiet, such as the manager of food and beverages.  Samacerothstein does the complete opposite. He sets up a TV talk show Samacerothstein. High where he has celebrity guests and he frequently talks about his lawsuit with the gaming board regarding his license. Everyone is upset with him, and Remo tells Andystone to tell Samacerothstein that he should probably quit. During their meeting, Samacerothstein defends his actions saying that with the TV show making his image and plight more public, he'll be eventually be issued his gaming license. Samacerothstein also complains that his biggest problem is Nickysantoro. stating that Nickysantoro.s relentless wild behavior has brought way too much heat on him and suggests that he takes some time off. When Andystone tells Nickysantoro.antoro what Samacerothstein said, Nickysantoro.antoro meets Samacerothstein out in the desert, where he furiously tells him never to talk behind his back again. The two are so angry at each other that when Samacerothstein sees Nickysantoro. Frankiemarino. and Dominick at a restaurant, he pretends he doesn't know him. Out of spite, Nickysantoro.antoro shows up at the Tangiers, despite being banned, acting hostile toward a Blackjack dealer. After Samacerothstein tells Nickysantoro.antoro to hurry up and get out, Nickysantoro.antoro loses his temper again, this time, on Billysherbert. Nickysantoro.antoro calls Billysherbert a Jew prick and beats him with a telephone receiver.  Ginger has now had enough of Samacerothstein and files for divorce, asking for alimony and custody of Amy. Samacerothstein doesn't want her to leave, stating that she's an alcoholic, that she'll just blow the money away, and that he doesn't trust her with Amy. Samacerothstein decides to send Ginger and Amy away for a week to go shopping. When he tries to call her, he realizes she's with Lesterdiamond again and the two are planning to kidnap Amy and fly to Europe. Both Lesterdiamond and Ginger have changed their appearances and Ginger is now addicted to cocaine. Samacerothstein calls Lesterdiamond, demanding that Amy be returned to him. Ginger is now terrified that Samacerothstein will send someone to kill them and calls Nickysantoro. who tells her not to worry. Nickysantoro.antoro tells Samacerothstein that Ginger wants to come back but that she's scared. Samacerothstein decides to take her back. He, however, is furious at Ginger for almost kidnapping Amy and giving Lesterdiamond 25,000 for suits and a watch. That night, he hears her asking someone over the phone to kill him. Livid, he grabs her, gives her some money and clothes, and throws her out of the house. She comes back, and Samacerothstein reveals that he still loves her. He makes her wear a beeper so that he knows where she is at all times. She goes to talk to Nickysantoro. asking him if he can help get her her money. The two then start an affair, which undercover cops take pictures of. After Samacerothstein comes to know of the affair, he warns her that she needs to end it, or it could get all three of them killed. But she still continues the affair, despite Nickysantoro.antoro giving her the same warning.  When Frankiemarino.arino flies out to KC again, Gaggi asks him whether he knows if Nickysantoro.s sleeping with Samacerothstein.s wife. Frankmarino narrates that he knew it could get Samacerothstein. Ginger, and Nickysantoro.antoro killed if he told the truth. So he lies, even though he puts himself in danger as well. By now, Nickysantoro.antoro and his crew have become coke addicts and alcoholics, affecting the way they work. They start acting even more recklessly they shoot up a cop's home after the police killed one of their members. Nickysantoro.antoro is also worried that Samacerothstein will go to Gaggi and tell him about the affair. Even though he hasn't made up his mind, Nickysantoro.antoro tells Frankiemarino.arino to start getting ready to have Samacerothstein killed, if it comes to that.  One night, Samacerothstein calls his home from the casino, but no one answers. When he gets home, he finds his daughter Amy tied to her bedposts, by Ginger. He finds out she's at Nickysantoro.s restaurant and quickly goes there. He goes to her table and warns her if she ever abuses Amy again he'll kill her. They go home where they argue some more, only to have Ginger return to Nickysantoro.s. They argue in the back of the restaurant, and Ginger asks Nickysantoro.antoro to have Samacerothstein killed. Nickysantoro.antoro says no, that he's been Samacerothstein.s friend for 35 years. Nickysantoro.antoro is more worried that the bosses are going to find out. In a fit of rage, Ginger attacks Nickysantoro. and after being slapped a couple of times, is literally thrown out by Nickysantoro.antoro and Frankiemarino. Samacerothstein calls Billysherbert and asks him to come over to his house with his gun, fearing for his life.  The next morning, Ginger arrives at the house hysterically screaming and smashing Samacerothstein.s car with her own. She threatens to call the FBI on everyone and causes such a scene that the police arrive. The police ask if Ginger can be let into the house to collect some personal items Samacerothstein says he'll let her when she calms down. One of the cops escorts Ginger inside. Ginger breaks into Samacerothstein.s desk and steals his Las Vegas safedeposit box key. She drives to the bank and takes most of the money, despite Samacerothstein.s request that she doesn't. She drives off, only to be pulled over and arrested for aiding and abetting by the undercover officers watching them.  Even though she doesn't talk, the feds have no need for Ginger, they have everything they need. While Nickysantoro.antoro had skipped town, the FBI executes search warrants on his house and the Gold Rush, arresting Dominick, Frankiemarino. and the rest of the crew. The feds seize the casino and start going through the books. Philipgreen admits he was being extorted and is willing to cooperate. While going through Artiepiscano's house, the feds find his record books, giving them all they need. Artiepiscano becomes so upset that he drops dead in front of them from a heart attack. They even show Samacerothstein the pictures of Ginger and Nickysantoro. but Samacerothstein doesn't want to look at them. The Chicago Outfit is indicted with skimming the casino and they decide to murder anyone who can incriminate them. They reluctantly kill Andystone in fear that he may talk, although Nickysantoro.antoro states their main motive is that he wasn't Italian. Johnnance is also killed while hiding from the feds in Costa Rica  Also on the Outfit's hitlist are two of the men from the counting room. The list of victims expands greatly and the murders pile up over a period of weeks. After Ginger left, Samacerothstein found out she'd hooked up with some lowlifes and blew through all the money and jewels. She later is found dead from a cocaine overdose following the initial report by the coroner, Samacerothstein has a friend of his conduct a private investigation amp finds out Ginger may have been given a hot dose. Samacerothstein himself is nearly killed by a car bomb, depicted in the opening scene. While the media believes it was orchestrated by the bosses, Samacerothstein believes that Nickysantoro.antoro is somehow involved since a steel plate under the driver's seat protected him from the worst of the explosion.  However, Samacerothstein never gets the chance to question Nickysantoro.antoro by now, the bosses have had enough of him. The combination of being barred from the casinos, the police attention he brought from his murders and burglaries, and him sleeping with a marriedman's wife against the mademan code are all too much for the bosses to handle. They have Nickysantoro.s crew meet him in a remote cornfield after they posted bail. After saying hello to them, they hold him down as they beat Dominick with bats. Frankiemarino.arino leads the beating, saying he's had enough of them. They beat Dominick until he's knocked out, then they strip him and throw him into a shallow grave. They then proceed to beat Nickysantoro. Samacerothstein narrates that they buried them while they were still breathing.  Samacerothstein states that the Tangiers has been demolished, and that Vegas no longer has a friendly feeling to it any more. Most of the old casinos are demolished along with the Tangiers to make way for newer, larger and more modern casinos and hotels. Samacerothstein laments that the old tradition of casinos being friendlier places to gamble and do business vanished almost overnight and that junk bonds paid for the newer ones. However, Samacerothstein is still able to return to his old job as a sports handicapper for the mob.