Set in 1937 Los Angeles, a private investigator named Jakej..J. Gittes  is hired to spy on Hollismulwray, the chief engineer for the city's water department. The woman hiring Gittes claims to be Evelynmulwray.ulwray, Hollis' wife. Mr. Evelynmulwray spends most of his time investigating dry riverbeds and water runoff outlets. Mr. Evelynmulwray also has a heated argument with an elderly man on the street. Gittes finally catches Evelynmulwray during an outing with a young blonde and photographs the pair, which becomes a scandal in the press. After the story is published, Gittes learns that the woman who hired him was not the real Evelynmulwray.ulwray. Evelynmulwray.ulwray later visits Jakej.s office and threatens to sue him for defamation.   Clues suggest a scandal in the city government despite a serious drought and an expensive proposal to build a new dam, the Water and Power department is dumping fresh water into the ocean at night. The dam project is opposed by Evelynmulwray himself, who cites a potential disaster because of weak geological formations in the rock where the dam is to be constructed  Evelynmulwray had previously supported the building of another dam that had failed due to similar geological conditions. While he addresses a public hearing on the project, that Gittes himself attends, he is ridiculed by several farmers in attendance, who need the reservoir and water the dam will create.  Jakej. goes to Evelynmulwray's mansion to speak to him but is only able to talk to Evelynmulwray. While he waits for her, Evelynmulwray's Japanese gardener works in one of the small decorative pools. He casually says bad for the glass in broken English, a comment that Jakej. dismisses. Jakej. notices a shiny object in the pool and tries to retrieve it, stopping when Evelynmulwray.ulwray appears. She tells him that Hollis usually takes afternoon walks at a reservoir and that she should look for him there.  Gittes looks for Hollis at the reservoir but finds the police there instead, hauling his body out of the water amp investigating Evelynmulwray's death from drowning. The lead investigator is Lt. Louescobar, a man Jakej. worked with while he was a cop himself. When the police speak to Mrs. Evelynmulwray about the death, they assume she hired Gittes, which Gittes corroborates. She thanks him and hires him to investigate what happened to her husband. Later, at the county coroner's department, Gittes talks to the coroner himself and finds out that Evelynmulwray lungs were filled with salt water, despite his being found in a freshwater reservoir. Gittes is also told that a local drunk was found dead in a dry riverbed that Evelynmulwray was inspecting, having also drowned.  Later that night, while sneaking into the reservoir's secured area, Gittes is confronted by water department security a large man named Claudemulvihill and a short thug , who slashes Jakej.s nose for being a very nosy fella. Gittes, forced to wear a large amp ridiculous bandage on his face, receives a call from Idasessions, the woman who impersonated Mrs. Evelynmulwray, who admits she was hired to trick Gittes. She refuses to come to Gittes' office to speak about the incident but suggests that Gittes look at that day's obituary column. At the water department, Gittes notices photographs of the elderly man Evelynmulwray quarreled with a few days before his death, identifying him as Noahcross . Noahcross, who is Evelynmulwray.ulwray's father, used to own the water department as Evelynmulwray's business partner. Noahcross ended his association with the department when the partners sold it to the city, a longstanding desire of Hollis'.  Noahcross invites Jakej. to lunch at his home and hires Jakej. to find the blond girl Hollis had been seeing, saying that she might know what happened to him. Gittes goes to the Hall of Records and looks in a large plat book, finding that new names of people who have purchased large tracts of land. When the attendant in the room refuses to let Jakej. borrow the book, Jakej. surreptitiously tears the column out of the book and pockets it. Acting on a further hint from Sessions, Gittes begins to unravel an intricate scandal involving LA's fresh water supply. Gittes first travels to an orange farm to talk with the owner about how his land is being irrigated. As he drives around he is shot at by the farmer and a few of his farmhands and crashes his car into a tree. Jakej. is dragged from his car, beaten and searched. The farmer explains that the Department of Water has been harassing him by sending agents to run him off his land and poison the water in his wells. While he tries to show the farmer documentation of his investigation, the farmhands claim that Evelynmulwray is responsible for harassment of late and attack Jakej. When Jakej. tries to fight back, he's knocked unconscious. He wakes up to find that the farmer and his wife have called Evelynmulwray. who has come to the farm.  While they drive back to LA, Jakej. explains the scandal to her her father and his partners have been forcing farmers in the rural areas surrounding the city off of their land so they can buy it cheap, after which a newlybuilt  dam and water system would start redirecting much of L.A.'s water supply to that land, dramatically increasing its real estate potential amp value.  Since Noahcross wants no record of such transactions, he has partnered with a retirement home community, using the identities of the eldest residents within  they would legally, but unknowingly, own the land. Jakej. having matched one of the obituary names to one of the names in the list he stole from the plat book, has Evelynmulwray.ulwray drive him to the retirement home and pose as a married couple trying to find a place for Jakej.s father to live. The host tells them they can tour the facility. They come across an activities board with the names of the people from the plat book. Jakej. talks to a group of women working on a quilt. One of the pieces of fabric they've sewn into the quilt bears the emblem of the Albacore Club, the yacht club owned by Noahcross. Jakej. is confronted by the host who has figured out Jakej.s ruse. The man takes him out to the lobby where Claudemulvihill is waiting. Jakej. tells Evelynmulwray.ulwray to bring the car around and then severely beats Claudemulvihill and barely escapes when the short thug who slashed his nose shows up.  Back at Evelynmulwray.s house, Gittes and Evelynmulwray.ulwray share a romantic interlude. As they lie on the bed afterward, Evelynmulwray.ulwray asks Jakej. about his past as a cop. He tells her he worked in Chinatown and was responsible for a woman being hurt, possibly killed because of his actions. The phone rings and Evelynmulwray.ulwray has a cryptic conversation with someone, then informs Jakej. that she has to leave for a little while. She gravely asks him to trust her.  Gittes takes Hollis' car and follows Evelynmulwray.ulwray to a middleclass house and sees Evelynmulwray's girlfriend crying. Evelynmulwray.ulwray claims the young woman is her sister, who was crying because she had just learned about Hollis' death in the newspaper. Later that night, Jakej. receives a call at home from a detective named Loach, Louescobar's partner, telling him to meet him at a specific address. When he gets there he finds that Idasessions is murdered and Louescobar and Loach are waiting for him. When Jakej. asks how they knew to call him Louescobar shows Jakej. his phone number written near the phone. Louescobar also points out that he knows the coroner's report proves that salt water was found in Evelynmulwray's lungs even though the body was found in a freshwater reservoir, a fact that Jakej. had discovered earlier but withheld. He demands that Jakej. turn over any incriminating photos that may reveal Evelynmulwray's murderer's identity. Louescobar's chief suspect is Evelynmulwray.ulwray herself.  Under pressure from Louescobar threatening to revoke his PI's license, Jakej. returns to Evelynmulwray.s mansion looking for her. Evelynmulwray.s Japanese gardener is working in the backyard and drops a minor comment about salt water being bad for the grass. Jakej. has the man fish out the shiny object he'd noticed in the pool before it's a pair of eyeglasses.  Gittes confronts Evelynmulwray.ulwray at the small house where she'd been keeping the young girl. Evelynmulwray.ulwray reveals that the blond girl, Katherine, is both her sister and her daughter, born from an incestuous relationship she had with her father years before. Gittes asks Evelynmulwray.ulwray if her father raped her and she shakes her head no. It remains unclear whether the act was consensual or not. It is apparent also that Evelynmulwray.ulwray resents her father for taking advantage of her in a relationship considered unnatural. Gittes then chooses to help Evelynmulwray.ulwray escape. Evelynmulwray.ulwray also states that the eyeglasses Jakej. found in her back yard pond could not have been her husband's because they are bifocals. Gittes arranges for the two women to flee to Mexico on a fishing boat owned by another of Jakej.s clients and instructs Evelynmulwray.ulwray to meet him at her butler's address in Chinatown. Evelynmulwray.ulwray leaves, and Noahcross arrives with Claudemulvihill under the pretext that Gittes has found the girl however, Gittes confronts Noahcross with the accusation of murder and the glasses. Noahcross had Evelynmulwray drowned in the saltwater pond at his own house and lost his own glasses in the pond during the act. Jakej. asks Noahcross about the water scandal Noahcross tells him that he plans to create a community in the desert with an abundant fresh water supply. The real estate revenues from the sales of the land will generate many millions of dollars for him. Noahcross considers the plan a way of buying the future, essentially insuring that his family will reap the benefits from such a deal for many years. When Jakej. pointedly asks Noahcross about the relationship with his daughter, Noahcross confidently says Most people never have to face the fact that, at the right time and the right place, they're capable of anything. Noahcross then orders Claudemulvihill to seize the glasses, the only physical evidence Jakej. has and forces Gittes to take him to the girl. When Gittes arrives at Evelynmulwray.s hiding place in Chinatown, the police are already there and arrest Gittes on conspiracy and withholding evidence. Jakej. vainly tries to explain Noahcross' plan to Louescobar, who won't listen.  Evelynmulwray.ulwray appears with her daughter, trying to drive away in her car. When Noahcross approaches Katherine, demanding custody of her, Evelynmulwray.ulwray pushes him back, shoots him in the arm with a small pistol and starts her car. As Evelynmulwray.ulwray is driving away, the police open fire and Evelynmulwray.ulwray is shot and killed. Noahcross clutches Katherine, taking her out of the car, as a devastated Gittes is comforted by his associates, who urge him to walk away Forget it, Jakej. It's Chinatown.  The plot is based in part on real events that formed the California Water Wars, in which Williammulholland acted on behalf of Los Angeles interests to secure water rights in the Owens Valley.