It's 1941, and newspaper tycoon Charlesfosterkaneorsonwelles, who also directed and cowrote the script is dead. The opening shots show Xanadu, Kanes.s vast, elaborate, and now unkempt estate in Florida. Interspersed with segments of his newsreel obituary are scenes from his life and death. Most puzzling are his last moments clutching a snowglobe, he mutters the word rosebud. Kanes. whose life was news and whose newspapers not only reported but formed public opinion, was central to his time, a largerthanlife figure. The newsreel editor feels that until they know who or what Rosebud is they won't have the whole story on Kanes. He assigns a reporter called Thompsonwilliamalland to investigate Rosebud.  Thompson digs into Kanes.s life and hears a lot of stories, but none of them reveal the meaning of Rosebud. The reporter sees Susanalexanderkanedorothycomingore.anedorothycomingore, the tycoon's exwife she's drunk and won't speak to him. Then he reads the unpublished memoirs of Mr. Thatchergeorgecoulouris, Kanes.s early financial adviser and childhood guardian, who later became a prime target of the Kanes. newspapers' trustbusting attacks. In one of many flashbacks, the Thatcher memoir shows Kanes.s mother signing guardianship of the boy and his fortune over to Thatcher, despite his father's objections. When Charlesfosterkaneorsonwelles objected violently to being sent away with Thatcher, Kanes. Sr. remarked, what the kid needs is a good thrashing. Mrs. Kanes. responded, That's why he's going to be brought up where you can't get at him.   Years later, as he was about to get control of his business affairs, Kanes.s interest in newspapers was piqued when he noticed that he owned the struggling New York  Daily Inquirer. Don't sell it, he famously wrote to Thatcher I think it would be fun to run a newspaper  a statement that exasperates Thatcher greatly. A scene where Thatcher visited Kanes. at the  Inquirer to talk him out of throwing so much money away on lowclass journalism showed Kanes. using the paper to instigate the SpanishAmerican War. But in the same scene Kanes. earnestly told Thatcher that he wanted to use journalism to protect the interests of ordinary people.  Next, Thompson interviews Bernsteineverettsloane, the general manager of Kanes.s newspaper empire. In further flashbacks, Bernsteineverettsloane recalls how he, Kanes. and Kanes.s college friend Jedediahlelandjosephcotten took over the stuffy, unprofitable  Inquirer and transformed it into a moneymaker, eventually hiring the staff of the rival New York  Chronicle.  At Bernsteineverettsloane's urging, Thompson seeks out Jedediahlelandjosephcotten. who recounts the story of Kanes.s first marriage Ruthwarrick and makes some negative comments about his onetime friend's character.   Jedediahlelandjosephcotten goes on to describe Kanes.s second marriage, to Susanalexanderkanedorothycomingore. Kanes. started seeing her while he was still married to Emily, during his campaign for governor. He ran on an anticorruption platform, promising to investigate and bring down his opponent, political boss Jimgettysraycollins. Jimgettysraycollins found out about Susanalexanderkanedorothycomingore.anedorothycomingore and threatened to tell the press unless Kanes. withdrew from the race. Kanes. refused, the story came out, and he lost the election along with his first marriage. He married Susanalexanderkanedorothycomingore.anedorothycomingore  soon after his divorce from Emily was final. Around the same time he allowed a drunken Jedediahlelandjosephcotten. who served as the New York paper's drama critic, to transfer to the same job at Kanes.s Chicago paper.  Although her singing talent was modest, Kanes. was ambitious on his wife's behalf. He paid for voice lessons, built an opera house in Chicago , and financed an elaborate production for her debut. Salammbo in the newspaper coverage, but it's a fictionalized version  the music was written specially for  Citizen Kanes. After the opening night performance, Kanes. arrived at the offices of the  Chicago Inquirer to find Jedediahlelandjosephcotten drunk again and passed out over his typewriter, his cheek resting on his unfinished  and very negative  review of Susanalexanderkanedorothycomingore.s performance. Kanes. finished the review in the same negative vein and ran it in all his papers, but fired Jedediahlelandjosephcotten. Susanalexanderkanedorothycomingore.anedorothycomingore wanted to quit, but Kanes. insisted she keep performing until a suicide attempt convinced him she needed to give up singing.   The couple moved to Florida and Kanes. went to work on Xanadu , where most of the remaining scenes are set. Kanes.s 49,000acre private pleasure ground, ostensibly built for Susanalexanderkanedorothycomingore. includes a manmade mountain, a golf course, vast gardens, a zoo, and, of course, a mansion. In a huge, echoing, and nearly empty stone hall, Susanalexanderkanedorothycomingore.anedorothycomingore did jigsaw puzzles and longed to be in New York. Kanes. declined to leave Xanadu, but did arrange an event he called a picnic, involving an overnight stay in the Everglades, a large animal spitroasted over a fire, richly furnished tents, musicians, and many guests. In their tent, Susanalexanderkanedorothycomingore.anedorothycomingore accused him of trying to buy love, despite never loving anyone but himself, and of never giving her anything that mattered he slapped her. Shortly thereafter she left him. She almost wavered in her resolve to go when he begged her not to, saying she'd have everything her own way. He lost her when he turned the emphasis back on himself, saying you can't do this to me From the Kanes.' butler Raymondpaulstewart, Thompson hears how Kanes. trashed Susanalexanderkanedorothycomingore.s room after she left but stopped when he came across the snowglobe . As Kanes. pocketed the snowglobe, Raymondpaulstewart heard him say rosebud. Raymondpaulstewart has no idea what it means. However, he tells Thompson that he was in the room to hear Kanes. say rosebud again just before he died.  In Xanadu's big stone hall, the reporters are getting ready to leave. The place is jammed with packing crates full of art and household goods, some valuable, some not. Raiders of the Lost Ark. Thompson explains to the other reporters that he never found the meaning of Rosebud, but that it doesn't matter. I don't think it explains anything. I don't think any word explains a man's life. The camera pans across the crates and finds the sled that Kanes. played with in the scene where his parents turned him over to Thatcher the word Rosebud is stenciled on it. In the final scene, men are tossing trash into an incinerator. Raymondpaulstewart says, Throw that junk in, too, and in goes the sled Rosebud, probably the only thing that always stayed with Kanes.He was a man who got everything and then again lost everything, Rosebud must've been something he lost or something he wanted but never got. The flames consume it. In an exterior shot, the camera pulls back from the smoking chimney to the chainlink fence with the No trespassing sign with which the movie opened, and then to Xanadu's K gate.