Johnmcclane, a detective with the New York City Police Department, arrives in Los Angeles to attempt a Christmas reunion and reconciliation with his estranged wife Hollygennero.onniebedelia, who is attending a party thrown by her employer, the Nakatomi Corporation, at its stillunfinished American branch office headquarters, the highrise Nakatomi Plaza. When McClane refreshes himself from the flight in Hollygennero.s corporate room, they have an argument over the use of her maiden name, Gennaro, but Hollygennero.ennero is called away.  As the party continues, a convoy of trucks makes its way to the building. Two men, Karlalexandergodunov and Theoclarencegilyardjr., arrive at the front desk to divert security's attention away from the trucks. Karlalexandergodunov guns down the guards while Theo commandeers the closed circuit security field. Terrorists led by German anarchist Hansgruberalanrickman emerge from the trucks and hold the partygoers as hostages in exchange for terrorist operatives in prison. In the confusion, McClane was able to disappear unnoticed into the building's maintenance areas, and learns that Hansgruberalanrickman is actually using the hostage situation as a cover to steal 640 million in bearer bonds stored in the building's vault. McClane is unable to stop Hansgruberalanrickman from executing Joetakagi, Hollygennero.s boss, when he refuses to hand over the vault's combination.  McClane attempts to alert the local police by setting off the fire alarm, but this fails, and he is promptly discovered by Karlalexandergodunov's brother, Tony. McClane kills Tony, taking his gun and radio, which he uses to contact the LAPD. Karlalexandergodunov demands vengeance, and convinces Hansgruberalanrickman to send two more henchmen, Marco and Heinrich, to neutralize him. McClane kills them both and secures a quantity of C4 explosives and all the crucial detonators which Heinrich was setting into prepared explosives. Sergeant Alpowellreginaldveljohnson arrives to check the building, finds nothing amiss and drives off, but McClane gets his attention by Marco's corpse onto Alpowellreginaldveljohnson's patrol vehicle. The situation rapidly escalates, and the SWAT team arrives to storm the building. However, Theo notices their movements on the security feed and alerts Hansgruberalanrickman. McClane attempts to get Alpowellreginaldveljohnson to stop the SWAT team from walking into a trap, but Alpowellreginaldveljohnson cannot convince his superiors. The SWAT team is repelled, the SWAT armoured vehicle is disabled by a rocket launcher, and the police are outgunned by the firepower of the terrorists. McClane drops C4 down the elevator shaft and destroys the entire floor where the terrorists are firing from, giving the cops a chance to retreat. This attracts the attention of the press, led by sleazy reporter Richardthornbergwilliamatherton, and the FBI, led by Special Agent Johnsonrobertdavi.  As the remainder of Hansgruberalanrickman.s men attempt to find McClane and the detonators, one of the hostages, Harryellishartbochner, betrays McClane's identity to Hansgruberalanrickman. Hansgruberalanrickman uses the radio to contact McClane, and demands that McClane return the detonators or else he would shoot one of the hostages. McClane refuses, and Hansgruberalanrickman kills Harryellishartbochner, to the horror of the police force who heard everything on radio. McClane continues to keep moving through the building to try to learn Hansgruberalanrickman.s plans. McClane and Hansgruberalanrickman accidentally meet but Hansgruberalanrickman gains McClane's trust by passing himself off as an escaped hostage. But then Hansgruberalanrickman.s identity is discovered as he threatens to shoot McClane. When Hansgruberalanrickman.s men arrive, McClane flees, dropping the detonators. The FBI shut off the building's power while they plan a helicopter raid onto the roof. However, Hansgruberalanrickman had planned for the FBI's predictability  disconnecting the power opened the final electromagnetic lock on the vault and gave him access to the bonds. He has used the recovered detonators to rig the helipad on the building's roof with explosives, knowing the FBI would attempt a sneak gunship attack on the building. After the FBI informs Hansgruberalanrickman that his demands have been met, Hansgruberalanrickman.s men force the hostages to the roof to be killed by the explosions, so they could escape in the confusion. McClane, after fighting off Karlalexandergodunov and failing to warn the police of the Hansgruberalanrickman.s doublecross, is able to get the hostages back inside safely, but the FBI helicopter shoots at him, believing he's one of the terrorists. The helipad explodes, the helicopter is destroyed and Alpowellreginaldveljohnson is killed in the explosion.  Hansgruberalanrickman has discovered from Richardthornbergwilliamatherton's investigative newscast that Hollygennero.ennero is McClane's wife. He holds her hostage to prevent McClane from interfering in his getaway. McClane, down to his last two bullets, is able to lull Hansgruberalanrickman into a trap, killing the last remaining terrorist and wounding Hansgruberalanrickman. who falls backwards and out of the building through a window. Hansgruberalanrickman manages to hang onto Hollygennero.s wristwatch, his weight dragging her out the window as well. McClane is able to unstrap the watch and lets Hansgruberalanrickman fall to his death. Meanwhile, Theo is detained by McClane's limo driver, Argyle, after collecting the bonds. McClane and Hollygennero.ennero leave the building together, and meet Alpowellreginaldveljohnson face to face for the first time. Karlalexandergodunov comes out behind McClane and Hollygennero.ennero with an assault rifle, but Alpowellreginaldveljohnson, who had previously confessed to McClane that he had not fired a gun since he accidentally shot a child years ago, draws and shoots him before he can harm McClane and Hollygennero. Richardthornbergwilliamatherton attempts to interview them as they are leaving the scene, Hollygennero.ennero punches him in the face. McClane and Hollygennero.ennero take off in Argyle's limo as the building is secured by the police.