Based upon a reallife story that happened in the early seventies in which the Chase Manhattan Bank in Flatbush, Brooklyn, was held siege by a gay bank robber determined to steal enough money for his male lover to undergo a sex change operation. On a hot summer afternoon, the First Savings Bank of Brooklyn is held up by Sonnywortzik.ortzik and Sal two downandout characters. Although the bank manager and female tellers agree not to interfere with the robbery, Sonnywortzik.ortzik finds that there's actually nothing much to steal, as most of the cash has been picked up for the day. Sonnywortzik.ortzik then gets an unexpected phone call from Police Captain Eugenemoretti, who tells him the place is surrounded by the city's entire police force. Having few options under the circumstances, Sonnywortzik.ortzik nervously bargains with Eugenemoretti, demanding safe escort to the airport and a plane out of the country in return for the bank employees' safety. Written by alfiehitchie  Firsttime crook Sonnywortzik.ortzik  and his friend Sal  rob a Brooklyn bank to fund Sonnywortzik.s boyfriend's sex change operation, only to discover that the bank has very little money. Unsure what to do, the two robbers camp out in the bank, holding all the workers hostage. The police are alerted that there is a robbery in progress. Detective Eugenemoretti  and numerous officers set up a siege around the bank. When Eugenemoretti calls the bank to tell the lead robber, Sonnywortzik. that the police have arrived, Sonnywortzik.ortzik warns that he and his armed accomplice, Sal, have hostages and will kill them if anyone tries to come into the bank. Detective Eugenemoretti acts as hostage negotiator, while FBI Agent Sheldon  monitors his actions. Howard , the security guard, has an asthma attack, so Sonnywortzik.ortzik releases him when Eugenemoretti asks for a hostage as a sign of good faith. Eugenemoretti convinces Sonnywortzik.ortzik to step outside the bank to see how aggressive the police forces are. After a moment, Sonnywortzik.ortzik starts his nowfamous ATTICA chant, and the civilian crowd starts cheering for Sonnywortzik.  After realizing they cannot make a simple getaway, Sonnywortzik.ortzik demands transportation a jet to take them out of the country. When a tactical team approaches the back door, he fires a shot to warn them off. Eugenemoretti tries to persuade Sonnywortzik.ortzik that those police were a separate unit that he was not controlling. Later, Sonnywortzik.ortzik incites the crowd by throwing money over the police barricades. Some overrun the barricade and a few are arrested. When Sonnywortzik.s wife Leonschermer   arrives, she reveals that Sonnywortzik.ortzik is robbing the bank to pay for Leonschermer's sex reassignment surgery and that Sonnywortzik.ortzik also has a legal wife, Angie, and children. Leonschermer refuses to speak with Sonnywortzik. even over the telephone.  As night sets in, the lights in the bank all shut off. Sonnywortzik.ortzik goes outside again and discovers that Agent Sheldon has taken command of the scene. He refuses to give Sonnywortzik.ortzik any more favors, but when hostage Mulvaney  goes into a diabetic shock, Agent Sheldon lets a doctor through. While the doctor is inside the bank, Sheldon convinces Leonschermer to talk to Sonnywortzik.ortzik on the phone. The two have a lengthy conversation that reveals Leonschermer had attempted suicide to get away from Sonnywortzik. She had been hospitalized at the psychiatric ward of Bellevue Hospital until the police brought her to the scene. Leonschermer turns down Sonnywortzik.s offer to join him and Sal, to wherever they take the plane. Sonnywortzik.ortzik tells police listening to the phone call that Leonschermer had nothing to do with the robbery attempt.  After the phone call, the doctor asks Sonnywortzik.ortzik to let Mulvaney leave and Sonnywortzik.ortzik agrees. Mulvaney refuses, instead insisting he remain with his employees. The FBI calls Sonnywortzik.ortzik out of the bank again. They have brought his mother to the scene. She unsuccessfully tries to persuade him to give himself up and Agent Sheldon signals that a limousine will arrive in ten minutes to take them to a waiting jet. Once back inside the bank, Sonnywortzik.ortzik writes out his will, leaving money from his life insurance to Leonschermer for her sex change and to his wife Angie.  When the limousine arrives, Sonnywortzik.ortzik checks it for any hidden weapons or booby traps. When he decides the car is satisfactory, he settles on Agent Murphy to drive Sal, the remaining hostages and him to Kennedy Airport. Sonnywortzik.ortzik sits in the front next to Murphy while Sal sits behind them. Murphy repeatedly asks Sal to point his gun at the roof so Sal won't accidentally shoot him. As they wait on the airport tarmac for the plane to taxi into position, Agent Sheldon forces Sonnywortzik.s weapon onto the dashboard, creating a distraction which allows Murphy to pull a pistol hidden in his armrest and shoot Sal in the head. Sonnywortzik.ortzik is immediately arrested and the hostages are all escorted to the terminal. The film ends with Sonnywortzik.ortzik watching Sal's body being taken from the car on a stretcher.