The film starts out with a short clip from a documentary where the real life Traudljunge.unge speaks about how even though she feels like she should be angry with her younger self for becoming Hitlers secretary, it is very hard to forgive herself.  The narrative begins in November of 1942. Traudljunge.unge and four other young women are arriving at Fhrer's Headquarters Wolf's Lair in Rastenburg, East Prussia. The women are met by Hitler's valet, Heinzlinge. After he gives the women an introduction, Hitler emerges from his office and proceeds to individually ask each woman her name and where she is from. Traudljunge.unge is the first woman chosen to have her secretarial skills tested and is eventually chosen to be Hitlers personal secretary.  The story jumps ahead to April 20th, 1945, Hitler's fiftysixth birthday. In Berlin, inside the Fhrerbunker, Traudljunge.unge is awakened by the bombardment of Soviet artillery from above. A furious Hitler storms out of his office and asks his Generals to inform him where the gunfire is coming from. General Wilhelmburgdorf informs Hitler that Central Berlin is currently under fire from Soviet artillery, but he doesn't know where its coming from. Wilhelmburgdorf gives Hitler a phone connected to General Karlkoller who informs Hitler that the artillery battery is only twelve kilometers away. After finding out the Soviets are much closer than he was told, Hitler yells at his Generals for not informing him and that he had to find out this news for himself.  Above ground in the Reich Chancellery, many head Nazi figures gather for Hitlers birthday reception. At the party, SS General Hermannfegelein informs SS General Heinrichhimmler that Hitler is ordering the evacuation of all German military offices by initiating Operation Clausewitz. Heinrichhimmler says that Hitler will take the whole Reich down if he remains in Berlin. He suggests that Hermannfegelein speak to his sisterinlaw, Evabraun, to see if she can convince Hitler to leave the city. Soon after, Hitler enters the room and is greeted with a salute and Sieg Heil from everyone.  The film jumps over to the evacuation of the SS Fhrungshauptamt. It also introduces a parallel story surrounding Professor Dr. Ernstgnterschenck, an SS colonel and doctor still in Berlin. Upset by the orders to evacuate, Dr. Ernstgnterschenck argues with SS General Tellermann that because he is both a colonel for the SS and a doctor for the Wehrmacht, he should not be ordered to evacuate so that he can stay to take care of the sick. Tellermann finally agrees and issues Ernstgnterschenck an authorized permit to stay in Berlin.  Back in the Reich Chancellery, many of the remaining generals are giving their final goodbyes to Hitler. When Heinrichhimmler says goodbye, he begs Hitler to leave Berlin and suggests getting in touch with the Western Allies, but Hitler refuses and leaves. As the generals are getting into their cars to evacuate, Heinrichhimmler tells Hermannfegelein that he thinks Hitler has finally lost it and that since Berlin will fall in the next few days, he is going to have to take it in his own hands. At the same time, Albertspeer arrives at the Reich Chancellery to talk with Hitler.  Overlooking a model for the proposed Welthauptstadt Germania, Hitler praises Albertspeer on his genius for realizing what Germany will become once they win the war. Hermannfegelein and Traudljunge.unge speak up urging Hitler to leave the city before it is too late, but he refuses again. Albertspeer backs him up by telling Hitler that he must be on stage when the curtain falls.  The film cuts away to the streets of Berlin and the civilians trying to leave before the Russians capture the city. Another parallel story is introduced surrounding a boy named Peters.ranz and his small outfit of Hitler Youth soldiers manning a FlaK 88. An older man, who is missing his left arm, walks up to the group of kids and is identified as Peters. father. He tells Peters. and his fellow soldiers that they are to young to fight and to stop. After several minutes of arguing, the group of soldiers tells Peters. father that they will fight until the very end because they swore an oath to The Fhrer. Peters. calls his father a coward and runs away.  In his war room, Hitler refuses the plea from General Alfredjowl to begin the retreat of the 9th Army. Hitler states that General Felixsteiner will be able to counterattack the Russians once his men arrive in Berlin. He also orders SS General Wilhelmmohnke to defend the city at all costs. Wilhelmmohnke requests the evacuation of civilians, but Hitler refuses. Outside of the war room, many of the generals express their concern that Hitler is going crazy, stating that he is ordering army divisions that only exist on the map. Hitler makes his way up to the surface to present awards to the Hitler Youth which happens to include Peters. Back in the bunker, Traudljunge.unge and some of the other girls discuss how they can't abandon Hitler like so many other people are doing.  Back in his office, Hitler tells Albertspeer about his scorched earth plan and that he wants to systematically destroy important industrial parts of the city before the allies arrive. Begging for the mercy of the German people, Albertspeer tells him it will only do harm to the future of Germany, but Hitler states that the only German people left are the weak and that they deserve to die.  Meanwhile, up in the Reich Chancellery, Evabraun and many other guests are having a party. Hermannfegelein grabs Eva aside and begs her to convince Hitler to leave, but she refuses. Off to the side, Traudljunge.unge tells her friend Gerda that the whole situation is unreal and is like a bad dream. The whole party suddenly comes to an end when an artillery shell hits right outside the building, sending debris through the windows. Everyone descends back down into the bunker.  Up on the streets, General Helmuthweidling is being accused for not holding his post and for retreating. Even though he denies the accusations, he is ordered to report to the bunker for execution.  Back in the SS Fhrungshauptamt, Dr. Ernstgnterschenck receives a call from Wilhelmmohnke ordering him to collect all the medical supplies he can find and to bring them to the bunker.  General Weidling arrives at the bunker as he was ordered to, asking why he is to be shot. General Hanskrebs informs him that orders are that any general who retreats is to be shot on spot. After Weildling tells him that he hasn't moved at all, Hanskrebs informs him to speak with Hitler about it.  Dr. Ernstgnterschenck arrives at a military hospital to get the requested medical supplies, but it has been abandoned and cleaned out except for dead bodies. Ernstgnterschenck also discovers a group of elderly and sick patients who have been left for dead.  Back in the bunker, General Wilhelmkeitel informs General Weidling that his report has impressed Hitler and not only will he no longer be shot, but that he has been promoted to the commander of Berlin's defense. Weidling states that he would rather have been shot. On the other side of the bunker, Hermannfegelein pleads to Traudljunge.unge and Gerda to leave and informs them that what Hitler has told them about a possible victory is false.  In the war room, General Hanskrebs informs Hitler that the Russians have pushed the German lines even further into the city and that General Felixsteiner wasn't able to gather enough soldiers for a counterattack. Hitler orders everyone leave except Wilhelmkeitel, Jodl, Hanskrebs and Wilhelmburgdorf. Hitler yells at them for disobeying a direct order and that his entire military has been lying to him. Hitler states all of his generals are cowards and traitors and that because of their incompetence, they have lost him the war. Hitler leaves the war room and tells Traudljunge.unge that she can leave if she wants, but she refuses to. The rest of the remaining generals argue over what to do now that Hitler has given up.  Eva, Gerda and Traudljunge.unge talk a walk just outside the entrance of the bunker to grab a smoke. Eva talks about how she hates Adolf's German Shepard, Blondi, and abuses the dog whenever Hitler is not around. Bombs start to fall again and they retreat inside the bunker.  On his way back to the bunker with medical supplies, Dr. Ernstgnterschenck runs into a group of soldiers about to execute a small group of old men for not helping defend the city. Ernstgnterschenck pleads to the soldiers to spare the old mens' lives, but they are shot anyway. Ernstgnterschenck leaves and finally arrives at the bunker with the supplies and is shocked to see how many wounded civilians are there.  Meanwhile, Josephgoebbels' wife and six children arrive at the bunker to stay with him under the care of Traudljunge. The Josephgoebbels children dress up and present a song to Hitler. After the children leave, Hitler discusses the best ways to commit suicide with Eva, Gerda and Traudljunge. giving them each a cyanide capsule.  Now April 23rd, Eva and Mrs. Josephgoebbels each write letters to their families informing them that the war is almost over and that they plan on staying with Hitler until the end. Meanwhile, Hitler orders General Wilhelmkeitel to link up with Admiral Karldnitz to capture more oilfields for offensive maneuvers once they push back the Russians.  Hitler receives a message from Hermanngring stating that he wishes to take command of the Third Reich since Hitler can no longer do anything from Berlin. After declaring Gring a failure and a traitor, he orders him to be executed. Meanwhile, Albertspeer arrives at the bunker and pleads with Traudljunge.unge and Mrs. Josephgoebbels to reconsider staying with Hitler.  Albertspeer meets with Hitler to say his goodbyes. He also begs that Hitler spare the German people and not take everyone down with him, but once again, Hitler refuses. Albertspeer then informs Hitler that he has personally ignored and even defied many of his orders for some time. Upset, Hitler rejects a handshake and tells Albertspeer to leave.  Peters. who has left his unit and been fleeing from the approaching Russians, is able to make it to his home to find his father and mother waiting for him.  During dinner, Hitler appoints General Vongreim as the Commander in Chief of the Air Force with order to reorganize and correct the mistakes that have been made. He tells Vongreim that he must be ruthless because compassion is for the weak and a betrayal of natural selection. During this dinner, Hitler receives a report that Heinrichhimmler has offered Germany's surrender to the western allies. Upset that his most loyal general has betrayed him, Hitler orders Heinrichhimmler to be executed and for Hermannfegelein to report to the bunker to be promoted in place of Heinrichhimmler.  Hitler has a meeting with General Ernstrobertgrawitz who is requesting to leave Berlin so that he and his family can escape, but is denied. After Ernstrobertgrawitz is dismissed, Ottognsche informs Hitler that Hermannfegelein has left the bunker and cannot be found, upsetting Hitler even more. Meanwhile, at home, Ernstrobertgrawitz kills himself along with his entire family and Hermannfegelein is executed for treason once he is found.  Back in the war room, Hitler is informed that the Russians have advanced even further and that Berlin no longer has any air support, stopping any more supplies from reaching the remaining army. However, Hitler still has hope that General Waltherwenck will be able to rescue Berlin. After Hitler leaves the room, the remaining generals discuss that Waltherwenck lacks the manpower to do anything to the Russians, but they cannot surrender.  Traudljunge.unge then reports to Hitler so that she can write his last will. Hitler states that since WWI, all of his thoughts and actions have been dictated by his love and loyalty to the German people. As Traudljunge.unge is typing it up, Josephgoebbels informs her that Hitler has ordered him to leave Berlin, but he cannot do it and will need her to write up his will too. Meanwhile, Hitler then has a small ceremony where he marries Eva.  Later on, Hitler is informed that neither General Waltherwenck nor any other army division will be able to rescue Berlin. Hitler tells them that he cannot surrender and that neither can any of his generals. Hitler informs Ottognsche that he and Eva will commit suicide and that he is to make sure that the Russians will never be able to find his body.  Dr. Ernstgnterschenck and Dr. Wernerhaase are ordered to the bunker where Haase gives Hitler instructions on how to commit suicide. Meanwhile, Dr. Ernstgnterschenck is forced to wait with a bunch of drunken soldiers who have given up any hope of victory, but later witnesses Hitler giving Blondi a cyanide capsule.  Meanwhile, Eva and Traudljunge.unge talk about the approaching end. Eva gives Traudljunge.unge one of her best fur coats and makes her promise to try and make it out of the bunker alive. Hitler then has his last meal with Traudljunge.unge and a few others, and then informs them that the time has come. He gathers around Traudljunge.unge and his remaining friends, including the Josephgoebbels, to wish them goodbye. Mrs. Josephgoebbels attempts one last time to convince Hitler to leave Berlin, but he refuses, stating that millions of people will curse him tomorrow. Hitler and Eva retire to their room and commit suicide. Ottognsche then informs the remaining generals that Hitler is indeed dead and his and Eva's bodies are carried to the surface where they are doused with gasoline and burned.  General Hanskrebs has a meeting with the Russian generals informing them that Hitler is dead and that Germany will not accept unconditional surrender. However, the Russian generals tell him that they must.  Later on, Mrs. Josephgoebbels gives all of her children a sedative and poisons them while they are asleep. She and her husband commit suicide not long after, along with Generals Hanskrebs and Wilhelmburgdorf. General Weidling orders the Germany Army to cease fire. Traudljunge.unge, along with a few other women, is able to make it out of the bunker dressed as soldiers. Dr. Ernstgnterschenck informs the women that they don't have to be taken prisoner because the Russians aren't looking for them. Traudljunge.unge is joined by Peters. who is now orphaned after his parents committed suicide, and the two of them are able to pass through the Russian army.  Some of the remaining SS soldiers, along with Dr. Ernstgnterschenck, are hiding from the Russians in a building. When they finally hear the news that Germany has officially surrender, the majority of them commit suicide in order to remain loyal to Hitler, but Dr. Ernstgnterschenck is able to make it out of there alive.  After getting through the Russians, Traudljunge.unge and Peters. find a bicycle and escape from Berlin.  The film ends by revealing the fates of each individual after the war. The last clip is the real life Traudljunge.unge talking about how even though she wasn't aware of the extent of the concentration and extermination camps until after the war, she still feels like being young isn't an excuse and that it would have been possible for her to find things out. Prof. Ernstgntherschenck was played ny  Christianberkel who will later display Fritzshimonhaber in  Haber.