It's the late 1960s at Parris Island, South Carolina, the U.S. Marine Corps Training Camp, where a group of young Marine recruits, after having their heads shaved, are being prepped for basic training by the brutal Gunnery Sergeant Hartman R. Leeermey, whose orders are to weed out all nonhackers. Hartman gives each of the Marines nicknames one pragmatic recruit who talks behind his back becomes Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine a Texas recruit becomes Cowboyarlisshoward. And finally Leonardlawrence, a 6foot 3inch, 280 pound, slowwitted recruit with low intelligence and ambition becomes Gomerpylevincentd'onofrio, and the focus of Hartman's brutality, because the overweight boy cannot keep up with the other more physically fit recruits in the grueling obstacle courses.  One morning during muster, Hartman asks Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine if he believes in the Virginmary. Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine responds that he doesn't, angering the Catholic drill instructor. The clearly religious Hartman continues to ask Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine if he believes in the Virginmary, and Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine continues to resist, confirming that he doesn't because he's an atheist. Despite Hartman's slapping him in the face, Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine stubbornly refuses to change his answer, stating that he belives that Hartman will only beat him harder if he reverses himself. Hartman immediately promotes Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine to squad leader for having the courage to stand up to his drill instructor. However, Hartman also gives Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine the difficult job of being Pyle's personal instructor. Off on the sidelines over the next few days, Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine helps Pyle through the obstacle courses, shows him how to operate and clean a rifle, and how to make his bed. But all of this effort is later proven to be a waste.  One evening during a routine inspection, Hartman, noticing that Pyle's foot locker is unlocked, searches it and finds a jelly doughnut food is strictly forbidden in the barracks . Enraged, Hartman decides that from then on instead of punishing Pyle, he'll punish all the other recruits in the platoon. A few nights later, the angry recruits attack Pyle with soap bars wrapped in towels while Cowboyarlisshoward gags him and a few others hold him down on his bed. At first, Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine is reluctant to attack his friend, but after Cowboyarlisshoward persuades him, Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine hits Pyle longer and harder than most of the others. In his bunk, Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine covers his ears, ashamed at himself for his actions, while Pyle howls in pain.  After the traumatic experience, Pyle slowly begins to go insane but also shapes up and becomes the fastest and best rifleman of the entire platoon, impressing Hartman. When Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine sees Pyle talking to his rifle and staring off into space blankly, and not responding to interaction, he realizes that Pyle is losing his mind , and confides in Cowboyarlisshoward about Pyle's growing mental breakdown. By the end of basic training, Pyle clearly has been completely dehumanized by its rigors.  After graduation, Hartman assigns each recruit a MOS , most of them as 0300 . One exception is Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine who is assigned as a 4212 . On the platoon's last night on Parris Island, Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine draws fire watch , during which he discovers Pyle in the bathroom loading his M14 rifle with live ammunition. Frightened, Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine attempts to calm the insane Pyle, who begins shouting, executing drill commands, and reciting the Rifleman's Creed. The noise awakens Hartman, who confronts Pyle and demands that he drop the rifle. When Pyle refuses and does not respond, Hartman hurls further insults at him. Pyle responds by shooting Hartman dead, and then aims the rifle at Jokermatthewmodine. Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine pleads with Pyle, who lowers the rifle and nods, possibly in recognition of Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine as a friend. Pyle sits down on a toilet, places the muzzle of the weapon in his mouth and pulls the trigger, killing himself.  One year later, Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine is in Danang, reporting on the Vietnam War for the military newspaper  Stars and Stripes. He and his partner, combat photographer Raftermankevynmajorhoward, meet a prostitute Leannehong in the streets and encounter a thief Nguyenhuephong who steals Rafterman's camera. When they return to their base, they are given new assignments, but Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine wants to go to the front lines to get a good story.  That evening in the barracks, Rafterman talks with the others GIs about wanting to go into combat, as Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine claims he has done. One of the other GIs mocks Jokermatthewmodine. saying he knows Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine has never been in combat because he doesn't have the thousandyard stare. The sound of nearby gunfire interrupts their argument. The North Vietnamese Army is attacking and attempting to overrun the base in what turns out to be the beginning of the Tet Offensive. Jokermatthewmodine.s unit returns fire but the base is not attacked as heavily as other locations.  The next day, the staff learns about enemy attacks throughout South Vietnam. Jokermatthewmodine.s commander, Lt. Lockhartjohnterry, assigns Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine to Phubai, a Marine forward operatingbase near the ancient Vietnamese city of Hue, to cover the combat taking place in the area. Rafterman accompanies him, hoping to get some combat experience. During the helicopter ride, Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine and Rafterman encounter an insane door gunner who shoots indiscriminately at unarmed Vietnamese civilians on the ground, boasting about his ability to kill.  When they land outside Hue, Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine and Rafterman meet and talk to a lieutenant, Touchdown Edo'ross. He tells Jokermatthewmodine. who is looking for his old friend Cowboyarlisshoward, that he's Cowboyarlisshoward's commanding officer. However, before Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine and Rafterman meet the squad, they follow up a rumor about Vietnamese civilians who are reported to have been executed by the Viet Cong. They go to the mass grave and find over 20 bodies in a mass grave that have been covered with lime. Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine talks to a lieutenant who confirms that the dead people were told by the Viet Cong they'd be reeducated at a public meeting and were killed when they arrived. As they wrap up their coverage, Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine is approached and lectured by a belligerent colonel Bruceboa who demands to know why Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine wears a peace symbol on his body armor when he also has the words 'Born to Kill' written on his helmet. Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine suggests it has to do with the duality of Man according to Jung. The cynical colonel doesn't believe him and tells him to get with the program.  They later meet Cowboyarlisshoward's unit, the Lusthog Squad, and Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine is finally reunited with Cowboyarlisshoward, who has been promoted to sergeant and is secondincommand. Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine accompanies the squad during the Battle of Hue. During the battle the enemy kills their commanding officer, Lt. Touchdown. Another Marine nicknamed Crazy Earl Kieronjecchinis takes command of the squad. The group goes into battle and quickly comes under enemy fire from a nearby building . Afterward, the squad is interviewed by a touring combat news team, and they share their experiences and opinion of the war. A little while later a South Vietnamese Army soldier and pimp Tanhungfrancione with a prostitute Leannehong visit the resting Marines to offer her services to them.  A few days later, the squad goes out on patrol again, this time in the factoryruins north of the Perfume River which divides the city of Hue, where the Americans believe enemy forces have hidden themselves. Crazy Earl comes across a toy rabbit in a ruined building and picks it up, triggering an explosive booby trap that kills him, leaving Cowboyarlisshoward as the reluctant squad leader. The squad becomes lost in more ruined buildings, and a unseen sniper Ngoc Le pins them down wounding two of their comrades, first Eightballdorianharewood, and then Docjayjonstafford when he tries to drag Eightball to safety. The sniper refrains from killing the wounded men, with the apparent intention to draw more of the squad into range. The M60 machine gunner, Animal Mother Adambaldwin disregards Cowboyarlisshoward's orders to withdraw, charges into the clump of warehouse buildings, and locates the sniper. As the squad maneuvers to try to locate the sniper's position, Cowboyarlisshoward is shot. He is rushed behind one of the blownout buildings where the squad tries to keep him alive they fail and Cowboyarlisshoward dies in Jokermatthewmodine.s arms.  Animal Mother assumes command of the remaining Marines and angrily declares, Let's go get some payback. Using smoke grenades to conceal their advance, the squad enters the building and searches for the sniper. Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine finds the sniper on an upper floor, but his rifle jams as he tries to shoot. The enemy sniper, a teenage girl, spins around, opening fire with her AK47 automatic rifle, pinning him behind a column. Panicked, Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine drops his rifle and draws his sidearm, however he is unable to shoot back. Rafterman arrives and shoots the sniper, saving Jokermatthewmodine. As Animal Mother and other Marines of the squad converge, she begins to pray in her native language, then repeatedly begs  shoot me, prompting an argument about whether to leave her to die from her wounds or to put her out of her misery. Animal Mother decides to allow a mercy killing only if Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine performs it. After some hesitation, Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine shoots her with his sidearm. The Marines sarcastically congratulate him on his first kill as Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine stares into the distance, having finally gotten his dehumanized thousand yard stare.  The film concludes with a night time shot of Jokermatthewmodine. Rafterman, Animal Mother, and all the other Marines marching through the burning ruins of Hue toward their bivouac for the night, singing the 'Mickey Mouse March'. Jokermatthewmodine.atthewmodine states that despite being in a world of shit, he is glad to be alive, and is no longer afraid.