Shouting Roma Invicta as his forces attack, General Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius leads the Roman Army to victory against Germanic barbarians in the year 180 A.D., ending a prolonged war and earning the esteem of elderly Emperor Marcusaurelius. Although the dying Marcusaurelius has a son, Commodus, he decides to appoint temporary leadership to the morallyupstanding Maximusdecimusmeridius. with a desire to eventually return power to the Roman Senate. Marcusaurelius informs Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius and offers him time to consider before informing Commodus, who, in a bout of jealousy, smothers his father.  Declaring himself the emperor, Commodus asks Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius for his loyalty, which Maximusdecimusmeridius. realizing Commodus' involvement in the Emperor's death, refuses. Commodus orders Maximusdecimusmeridius. execution and dispatches Praetorian Guards to murder Maximusdecimusmeridius. wife and son. Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius narrowly escapes his execution and races home only to discover his family's charred and crucified bodies in the smoldering ruins of his villa. After burying his wife and son, a grieving Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius succumbs to exhaustion and collapses on their graves.  Slave traders find Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius and take him to Zucchabar, a rugged province in North Africa, where he is purchased by Proximo, the head of a local gladiator school. Distraught and nihilistic over the death of his family and betrayal by his empire, Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius initially refuses to fight, but as he defends himself in the arena his formidable combat skills lead to a rise in popularity with the audience. As he trains and fights further, Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius befriends Hagen, a Germanic barbarian, and Juba, a Numidian hunter, the latter becoming a close friend and confidant to the grieving Maximusdecimusmeridius. the two speaking frequently of the afterlife and Maximusdecimusmeridius. eventual reunification with his family.  In Rome, Commodus reopens the gladiatorial games to commemorate his father's death, and Proximo's company of gladiators are hired to participate. In a recreation of the Battle of Zama  at the Colosseum, Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius leads Proximo's gladiators to decisive victory against a more powerful force, much to the amazement of the crowd. Commodus descends into the arena to meet the victors and is stunned to discover Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius as the leader of Proximo's gladiators. The Emperor, unable to kill Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius because of the crowd's roaring approval for him, gives the thumbsup sign allowing Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius to live and sulks out of the arena.  As the games continue, Commodus pits Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius against Tigris of Gaul, Rome's only undefeated gladiator, in an arena surrounded by chained tigers with handlers instructed to target Maximusdecimusmeridius. Following an intense battle, Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius narrowly defeats Tigris and awaits Commodus' decision to kill or spare Tigris. As Commodus votes for death, Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius spares Tigris, deliberately insulting the Emperor and garnering the audience's approval. His bitter enemy now known as Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius the Merciful, Commodus becomes more frustrated at his inability to kill Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius or stop his ascending popularity while Commodus' own popularity shrinks.  Following the fight, Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius meets his former servant Cicero, who reveals that Maximusdecimusmeridius. army remains loyal to him. They are camped at the port Ostia. Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius forms a plot with Lucilla, Commodus' sister, and Senator Gracchus to reunite Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius with his army and overthrow Commodus. Commodus however, suspecting his sister's betrayal, threatens her young son and forces her to reveal the plot. Praetorian guards immediately storm Proximo's gladiator barracks, battling the gladiators while Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius escapes. Hagen and Proximo are killed in the siege while Juba and the survivors are imprisoned. Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius escapes to the city walls only to witness Cicero's death and be ambushed by a legion of Praetorian guards.  Concluding that legends born in the Colosseum must die there, Commodus personally challenges Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius to a duel in front of a roaring audience. Acknowledging that Maximusdecimusmeridius. skill exceeds his own, Commodus deliberately stabs Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius with a stiletto, puncturing his lung, and has the wound concealed beneath the gladiator's armor. In the arena, the two exchange blows before Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius rips the sword from Commodus' hands. Commodus requests a sword from his guards, but they refuse to lend him their weapons. Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius drops his own sword, but Commodus pulls a hidden stiletto and renews his attack. Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius then beats Commodus into submission and kills him with his own stiletto.  As Commodus collapses in the nowsilent Colosseum, a dying Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius sees his wife and son in the afterlife. He reaches for them, but is pulled back to reality by the Praetorian prefect Quintus, who asks for instructions. Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius orders the release of Proximo's gladiators and Senator Gracchus, whom he reinstates and instructs to return Rome to a Senatebased government. Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius collapses, and Lucilla rushes to his aid. After being reassured that her son is safe and Commodus is dead, Maximusdecimusmeridius.ecimusmeridius dies and wanders into the afterlife to his home and family in the distance. Senator Gracchus and Proximo's gladiators carry his body out of the Colosseum. That night, a newlyfreed Juba buries Maximusdecimusmeridius. two small statues of his wife and son in the Colosseum , and says that he too will eventually join them, but not yet.