The film opens in Tara, a cotton plantation owned by the proud Geraldo'harathomasmitchell, a selfmade man of Irish descent, in the Confederate State of Georgia near Atlanta. The date is April 1861. He and his wife, Ellenbarbarao'neil, have three beautiful daughters Suellenevelynkeyes, Carreenannrutherford, and the headstrong 16yearold Scarlettvivienleigh. Scarlett spends her days having fun, tormenting the household servants, and flirting, especially with twins Brent and Stuartcarletonfredcrane,  Georgereeves. The brothers anticipate the next ball and hope Scarlett will choose one of them to attend the ball. The Carletons speculate the impending war between the North and the South. Scarlett finds the latter topic boring and is certain that there will be no war. She runs off to meet her father who is riding home through the fields. He returns home with some news.  Neighbor Johnwilkeshowardc. Hickman hosts a barbecue party at his Twelve Oaks plantation. Scarlett pines for Johnwilkeshowardc' son, Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward, a lanky, softspoken young man of refined bearing, though he doesn't reciprocate her feelings. Scarlett continues to flirt with other boys despite her willful obsession for Ashleylesliehoward. All the young women go inside for an afternoon nap while the men meet in the parlor for cigars and brandy. Most of them boast of how the South will surely win the war but one gentleman, Rhettbutler.utlerclarkgable, a visitor from Charleston, South Carolina, disagrees. He states that the South cannot win a protracted war purely through the exhibition of pride and notes how the North is better equipped and industrially superior, able to produce weapons of war quickly. Charleshamiltonrandbrooks is offended by Rhettbutler.s opinion and openly tells him so, even going so far as to suggest a duel. Rhettbutler. knowing full well that he's a much better shot than Charles and that this argument is not worth his life, leaves. Charles brands Rhettbutler.utler a coward but Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward assures him that Rhettbutler.utler would have killed him in the duel.  While the other girls are sleeping, Scarlett slips away from the nap room to speak to Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward in the parlor. She declares her love for him but Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward tells her that he intends to marry his cousin Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland, Charles' sister. Scarlett is infuriated and berates Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward for making her think he was in love with her. She maintains that Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland is too fair and can't compete with Scarlett's looks, despite the fact that Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland is admired for her kindness and altruism. Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward then walks out of the parlor. In her anger, Scarlett throws a vase at the wall, breaking it to pieces. Rhettbutler.utler suddenly pops up from the couch where he'd been resting and jokingly asks whether the war has begun. Scarlett is outraged and defends Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward when Rhettbutler.utler mocks him. When Scarlett leaves, Rhettbutler.utler laughs to himself Scarlett has announced that she would hate Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward forever, but she defended him five seconds afterwards  The start of the war is finally announced and all the young gentlemen rush to enlist. Charleshamilton is betrothed to Ashleylesliehoward.s sister, India Aliciarhett but, when Scarlett flirts with him to get a rise out of Ashleylesliehoward. he proposes to her instead. Still angry at Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward for rejecting her, Scarlett agrees. They quickly marry before Charles leaves for the front lines. Scarlett offers herself to Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward but he denies her again, kissing her lightly on the cheek. Just a few months later, news comes of Charles' death from illness while stationed at the front.  Wishing for her widowed daughter to cheer up , Suellenevelynkeyes suggests that she go to Atlanta to live with Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland and her Auntpittypatlaurahopecrews. Scarlett agrees to go, but only because it will give her the chance to see Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward again. Her nurse, Mammyhattiemcdaniel, believes this decision is not in Scarlett's best interest and tells her so.  In 1862, Scarlett attends a fundraising ball for the Confederate Army in Atlanta where she, as a recent widow, is not supposed to enjoy herself and must remain off to the side wearing a black gown. She dances surreptitiously behind the counter of her charity stall, receiving looks of disapproval as the people around her whisper rumors of her supposed mourning. Rhettbutler.utler is also in attendance, now known as an arms smuggler to benefit the Southern cause despite his cynical attitude towards the war's aims. His motivation is simply to make a profit and his skills in smuggling allowed him to obtain the ball decorations and make it past Southern blockades. Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland, by now having married Ashleylesliehoward. offers her wedding ring as a war contribution, a generous move that Scarlett feels obliged to follow. This incites Rhettbutler.utler to sarcastically praise her consideration. An auction is then held for the men to bid on a dance with a girl of their choosing. Rhettbutler.utler wins the auction and chooses Scarlett, causing consternation in the crowd because of Scarlett's position as a widow. However, she accepts Rhettbutler.s invitation to dance and, while they do, Rhettbutler.utler tells her that he someday wants to hear her say that she loves him. Scarlett confidently proclaims that will never happen as long as she lives.  Another year later, Christmas of 1863 arrives and Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward returns home from the war front on furlough. Still in love with him, Scarlett once again attempts to woo him but with no success. Just before Ashleylesliehoward.s departure day, Scarlett manages to see him alone and gives him a present, tearfully confessing that she only married Charles to hurt him. Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward makes Scarlett promise to take care of Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland before they share one passionate kiss. Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward leaves once more to rejoin the war effort.  Eight months pass, during which the war drags on and the situation in the South worsens. Food becomes scarce and nearly every family has lost loved ones to battle. Scarlett and Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland, now pregnant with Ashleylesliehoward.s child, volunteer as nurses caring for wounded soldiers. Scarlett despises her new role, doubled upon her responsibilities as the sole person to manage Auntpittypat's home since Pittypat is incompetent and Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland grows weaker due to her difficult pregnancy. Scarlett faces the harsh realities of war as she listens to a dying soldier Cliffedwards reminisce about his brother Jeff and witnesses another Ericlinden suffer a leg amputation without anesthetic. The useless Auntpittypat leaves the city, finding the noise of artillery annoying, and renders Scarlett to care for the weakened Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland with no one but the house servant, Prissybutterflymcqueen, to help.  When Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland goes into labor, Scarlett, intent on keeping her promise to Ashleylesliehoward. employs the help of Dr. Meadeharrydavenport who had previously been watching Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland's progress. However, he is unable to leave the train station where he is tending to hundreds of wounded and dying Confederate soldiers. When Prissybutterflymcqueen, who had claimed to know all there is to childbirth, admits that she knows nothing, Scarlett takes control, fueled by her anger. Though Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland's labor is long and complicated, she eventually gives birth to a son Patrickcurtis but is left severely weak.  Scarlett sends Prissybutterflymcqueen to find the one man who can get them all safely out of Atlanta before the approaching Union troops take siege Rhettbutler.utler. Prissybutterflymcqueen finds him enjoying himself at a local brothel run by Bellewatling Ona Munson. Though Rhettbutler.utler mocks Prissybutterflymcqueen, he agrees to assist Scarlett who insists on returning home to Tara. Rhettbutler.utler steals a horse and cart and fetches Scarlett, Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland, her baby, and Prissybutterflymcqueen, taking them through Atlanta as the city burns in wake of the Union advance. Once safely outside the city, Rhettbutler.utler leaves them to continue to Tara alone, telling Scarlett that he is to enlist in the Confederate army because he believes only in lost causes 'when they are really lost'. Scarlett begs him not to go and he professes his love for her, claiming to have never loved anyone else so fiercely. Scarlett rebuffs his advances but he kisses her, paying for it with a slap across the face. Rhettbutler.utler gives her his pistol and walks off, leaving Scarlett in tears.  The women continue on their journey to Tara alone, traveling mostly by night to avoid enemy Federal troops. When Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland can no longer lactate for the baby, they resolve to milk a stray cow for sustenance. They pass the Johnwilkeshowardc' plantation which has befallen the same fate as many others, having burned to the ground. Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland tries to stand but collapses upon seeing the scorched crosses marking the graves of her entire family. Under moonlight and just as their horse dies of exhaustion, they arrive at Tara to find it still standing but derelict, having been used as headquarters for Northern troops. The fields are untended and the grounds have been pillaged but Scarlett finds that her father, sisters, and two of their servants, Mammyhattiemcdaniel and Porkoscarpolk, remain, the rest of the servantsslaves having either run away or forced into the Union army. Scarlett discovers that her mother recently passed away from typhoid fever, leaving her already disturbed father practically insane. With barely any food, no livestock to speak of, and no money, Scarlett wanders into the fields to clear her head. She pulls a dried up carrot out of the ground to bite into it, only to throw up immediately afterwards. Resolving not to give up, she stands defiantly, saying, As God is my witness, I'll never be hungry again  Intermission  Months pass and the war enters its final stages. General Sherman marches his Northern armies through Georgia in his socalled 'March to the Sea', leaving destruction in his path. Scarlett and her sisters have been forced to make the best of things, performing manual labor themselves to keep Tara running and in repair. Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland remains weakened from childbirth and is reduced to staying in bed for the most part. At the moment when Scarlett is scolding her for getting out of bed again, wishing to help, a renegade Union soldier Paulhurst enters the home. He claims that he's simply looking for valuables to move on with but, when he threatens Scarlett, she takes a gun and shoots him in the face and he falls dead down the staircase. Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland is a witness, having crawled out of bed with a sabre. She promises not to tell the others what happened while Scarlett searches the soldier, finding legitimate cash and other valuables. They dispose of the body and explain to Scarlett's father and sisters that her gun had accidentally discharged. Scarlett drags the body off, planning to bury it in the orchard.  Some months later, in spring of 1865, the war is finally over. Confederate soldiers amble back home in the wake of General Lee's surrender. One of them, Frankkennedycarrollnye.ennedy Carroll Nye, arrives at Tara and, having long been in love with Suellenevelynkeyes, asks Scarlett's permission to marry her. Tara soon becomes a haven for passing soldiers who are given food and rest, mostly at the behest of Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland, much to the dismay of Scarlett. One soldier Philliptrent gives Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland the news that Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward is still alive but is a prisoner at a Yankee camp. Soon enough, Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward arrives at Tara and Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland rushes to embrace him. Scarlett is urged to do the same but is held back by Mammyhattiemcdaniel she has no rights to him. To her torment, Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward stays at Tara with Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland and his son Rickyholt.  During the first yearandahalf of Reconstruction, high taxes are imposed on the Southern plantations by Northern carpetbaggers, much to Scarlett's dismay. Terrified that she will lose Tara, she seeks comfort from Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward though Mammyhattiemcdaniel doesn't believe a thing of good will come of it. Scarlett begs Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward to come away with her to Mexico where they can start anew. He kisses her and admits that he loves her and admires her courage but simply can't leave Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland and his son behind. Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward reminds Scarlett that she still has Tara which she should love more than him and thrusts some of its red dirt into her hand. He tells her that the Southern civilization is and way of life with slavery is lost forever and that he intends to move to New York City with his family to work as a banker. Scarlett throws a tantrum and, when the commotion attracts Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland's attention, she naively suggest that she and Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward remain in Tara to help Scarlett. Dejected, Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward gives in.  Jonaswilkersonvictorjory, former overseer of Tara, now prosperous due to collaboration with the carpetbaggers, offers to buy Tara from Scarlett. Though the tax has risen to nearly 300, Tara rejects the offer and humiliates Jonaswilkersonvictorjory by throwing a clump of dirt in his face. As he leaves, Scarlett's father, his mind all but completely lost, chases him down on his horse, attempting to upbraid him. However, the horse falls while attempting to jump over a fence and O'Hara is killed in the fall.  After burying her father, Scarlett seeks the help of the only man she knows of, yet again. Rhettbutler.utler, despite holding a Captain's rank, is being held in jail in Atlanta by Union forces who are threatening to hang him unless he hands over his Confederate gold prior to the war, Rhettbutler.utler had moved all his wealth to banks in London where it would be safe. Conditions in the jail, however, are hardly bleak Rhettbutler.utler gambles and drinks with Union soldiers and receives female visitations. Scarlett decides to dress up for the occasion and enlists Mammyhattiemcdaniel to create a new dress for her out of the curtains hanging at Tara. Mammyhattiemcdaniel accompanies Scarlett to Atlanta to keep her out of trouble. Scarlett is allowed visitation to Rhettbutler.utler at the city jail and attempts to present herself with an air of elegance, claiming that life at Tara is like paradise. Rhettbutler. however, sees through the deception when he notices her roughened hands from working the fields. Despite her anger, she continues to beg for money and even offers to be his mistress. Rhettbutler.utler dismisses her. On her way out, Scarlett passes Bellewatling waiting for a visit. Noticing how welldressed she is, Scarlett figures that she knows how to get the money.  While walking through town, Mammyhattiemcdaniel and Scarlett come across Frankkennedycarrollnye.ennedy, now a successful businessman selling hardware and wood for which the city is being rebuilt. Frankkennedycarrollnye.ennedycarrollnye claims to be saving all his money to marry Suellenevelynkeyes and bring her to the city. Sensing an opportunity, Scarlett tells Frankkennedycarrollnye.ennedycarrollnye that Suellenevelynkeyes has married another man and presents herself open to Frankkennedycarrollnye. despite Mammyhattiemcdaniel's disapproving looks. Arriving back at Tara, Suellenevelynkeyes is heartbroken and sullen as a widow, having just learned that Scarlett hastily married Frankkennedycarrollnye.ennedycarrollnye and that he has paid off Tara's debts. She scolds Scarlett for having been married twice already and relents that she seems to be destined as a spinster.  Throughout that year , Frankkennedycarrollnye.s hardware and lumber store flourishes under Scarlett's management. She refuses credit to her poor neighbors and makes lucrative deals with Northern businessmen. They expand further, buying a sawmill, and Tara starts to regain part of its former splendor. Scarlett hires hungry convicts who are exploited by a cruel, former prison overseer . Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward expresses his discomfort at the thought of the convicts being abused, starved and used as slave labor but Scarlett is determined to allow it.  One day, Scarlett comes across Rhettbutler.utler, who is now free and very wealthy. He laughs, saying that she could have married him and become rich if she had waited. She brushes him off and leaves alone for the sawmill. Rhettbutler.utler points out that the shantytown on the way to the sawmill is full of dangerous criminals and deserters but Scarlett shows him that she carries a gun.  On the way to the sawmill, two men attack Scarlett from behind and overpower her before she can use her gun. Panicked, Scarlett faints. The men appear to be on the verge of raping her when Bigsam , a former slave at Tara, saves her by beating up the two men who flee. News of the event spreads quickly through the town. That evening, Frankkennedycarrollnye.ennedycarrollnye drops Scarlett and Mammyhattiemcdaniel off at the Johnwilkeshowardc' home while he and Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward go out to a political meeting. The women sense that something is afoot and Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland reads aloud from the book 'David Copperfield' in an attempt to relieve the tension. Rhettbutler.utler appears and tells the women that the men have formed a vigilante group to punish the attackers but that the Union army has been tipped off and those at the meeting are now in danger. Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland tells Rhettbutler.utler where they are meeting, considering him trustworthy despite Scarlett's advice to the contrary. Rhettbutler.utler says he will do what he can.  Several hours later, Rhettbutler.utler appears back at the home with Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward and Dr. Meadeharrydavenport, with a squad of Union soldiers right behind them. The three men seem to be completely drunk and Rhettbutler.utler tells the Yankee captain Wardbond that they have just spent the evening at the bordello establishment of Bellewatling, who should confirm their story. The women are shocked and embarrassed, but the captain accepts the explanation and departs . Rhettbutler.utler drops the curtain and instantly sobers , revealing there was a skirmish in the shantytown. Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward is wounded, having been shot in the shoulder but the two men who attacked Scarlett are now dead, along with several others. More worried about Ashleylesliehoward. Scarlett neglects to inquire about her own husband, Frankkennedycarrollnye. Rhettbutler.utler finally mentions that he was killed in the skirmish and is still there, lying dead in the road.  Some days later, Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland meets with Bellewatling and thanks her for helping their men stay out of trouble by backing up their false alibi. Bellewatling says that she has a son studying up North and helped the men because of Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland rather than Scarlett. Bellewatling cautions Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland about speaking to her in public from now on as it would damage Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland's reputation but Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland persists that she would be happy to speak to Bellewatling anytime.  A few days later Rhettbutler.utler visits Scarlett, again a widow. He realizes that she has been drinking heavily despite her attempts to cover up the smell with cologne. She tells Rhettbutler.utler that she will never love him because she's in love with another man, but she will marry him because of his money. Rhettbutler.utler says that they are two of a kind partners in crime, and he marries her anyway. Rhettbutler.utler and Scarlett have a luxurious honeymoon in New Orleans and return to Tara so that Scarlett can use her new riches to restore its full glory. Rhettbutler.utler also buys a large mansion in Atlanta where they will live on a regular basis. In time they have a child whom Rhettbutler.utler confidently names Bonniebluebutler after Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland remarks Kellygriffin, 2 yearold  Phyllisdouglas on her brilliant blue eyes.  After her daughter's birth, Scarlett becomes depressed over her waning youth and her unrequited love for Ashleylesliehoward. She informs Rhettbutler.utler that she wants no more children and will no longer sleep with him. Furious, Rhettbutler.utler storms out to find consolation at Bellewatling's. Although he has grounds for divorce, Rhettbutler.utler continues with the sham marriage in order to keep up social appearances for Bonniebluebutler's sake. Bonniebluebutler becomes a sort of substitute for Scarlett in Rhettbutler.s eyes. Over the next few years, Rhettbutler.utler dotes on the child, spoiling her and giving her the best of everything, including a pony and riding lessons.  In 1871, Indiawilkes and Mrs. Meadeleonaroberts discover Scarlett hugging Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward at the hardware store. Although the hug was rather innocent, Scarlett knows that rumors will fly. That night is Ashleylesliehoward.s birthday party and Rhettbutler. who has heard the gossip, forces Scarlett to go in a daring red taffeta dress which would be considered very inappropriate for the occasion. Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland is the only person who welcomes Scarlett. Back at the Atlanta mansion, Scarlett finds Rhettbutler.utler completely drunk. They have an angry confrontation and, this time, Rhettbutler.utler refuses to take no for an answer. He carries Scarlett off to the bedroom. The next morning, Scarlett seems deliriously happy. When Rhettbutler.utler arrives to apologize and propose a divorce, her good mood vanishes. Rhettbutler.utler promises to take care of Scarlett financially but insists on taking Bonniebluebutler away with him. Scarlett rejects his offer, as it would be a disgrace. Rhettbutler.utler then leaves on an extended trip to London, England and takes Bonniebluebutler with him.  In London, Bonniecammiekingconlon has nightmares and can't sleep in the dark. Her stuffy English nurse Lilliankemblecooper believes that the ordeal will build the child's character but Rhettbutler.utler dismisses her and lets Bonniebluebutler sleep with a candlelight on. The homesick Bonniebluebutler begs to return to her mother. When Rhettbutler.utler and Bonniebluebutler return to Atlanta, Scarlett tells him that she's pregnant again. Rhettbutler.utler reacts coldly and Scarlett ups the ante by saying she wishes the baby were not his, to which Rhettbutler.utler retorts, Maybe you'll have an accident. In the ensuing row at the top of the stairs, Scarlett takes a blind swing at Rhettbutler.utler who dodges it. The momentum causes Scarlett to fall down the stairs and lose her baby.  Later, at the behest of Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland who has become pregnant again, Rhettbutler.utler makes an effort to be kind to Scarlett. Sitting on the back terrace of their Atlanta mansion, Rhettbutler.utler and Scarlett discuss the possibility of Scarlett giving up the lumber business to devote herself to her husband and child. A reconciliation begins to seem possible when, at that moment, Bonniebluebutler insists stubbornly on jumping a fence with her pony after she raised the bar. Scarlett remembers her father's death and has a premonition of disaster. Her worst fears come true as the pony refuses to jump and fatally throws Bonniebluebutler over the fence. Rhettbutler.utler is devastated by Bonniebluebutler's death and refuses to release the child's body for burial for several days despite Scarlett's wishes. Rhettbutler.utler locks himself in his room with the body after shooting the pony, refusing to allow anyone in, including Scarlett who can only bang on the door screaming at him.  Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland arrives at the mansion and is led upstairs by Mammyhattiemcdaniel, who tearfully relays the past few days events. Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland manages to allow Rhettbutler.utler to come out of the room and allow undertakers to take away Bonniebluebutler's dead body. But Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland, overwrought with emotion, collapses and goes into labor. Upon a doctor's examination following the birth, he determines that Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland is dying from internal bleeding. In a final meeting with Scarlett, Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland asks her to look after Ashleylesliehoward. When Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland dies, Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward is left a broken man and he tells Scarlett that Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland was always his true love, a devastating revelation to Scarlett, who then realizes that he never really loved Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward and can only wish that he had been clearer about his own feelings for her. Rhettbutler. witness to the scene, stalks off to his amp Scarlett's home.  Scarlett returns to the mansion seeking Rhettbutler. Having seen Scarlett with Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward at Melaniehamiltonoliviadehavilland's house, Rhettbutler.utler tells her that she will never stop loving Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward and so he is leaving her, for good, to start a new life back in his hometown of Charleston. As Rhettbutler.utler begins to pack his suitcase to leave, Scarlett insists that she now realizes that she loves Rhettbutler.utler and never truly loved Ashleylesliehoward.esliehoward but Rhettbutler.utler maintains that any chance of saving their marriage died with Bonniebluebutler, and on top of all that, he's tolerated Scarlett's drama long enough. As he prepares to walk out the door, Scarlett begs him one last time, asking what will happen to her if he leaves. Indifferent, Rhettbutler.utler replies, Frankkennedycarrollnye.y, my dear, I don't give a damn. and strides out of the house into the evening fog.  Scarlett collapses on the stairs in anguish. She pulls back from despair only when she thinks of the other great love of her life, Tara, through a series of reminiscences in voiceover . Scarlett is determined to return to Tara, make a new start, and try to somehow get Rhettbutler.utler back, saying to herself, After all, tomorrow is another day  In the final shot, we see Scarlett silhouetted against Tara as the sun sets over the hill, having arrived back at her childhood home and now facing an unknown, but new, future.