On planet Earth in 1988, young Peterquillwyattoleff.uill Wyatt Oleff sits in the waiting room of a hospital, listening with headphones to Awesome Mix Tape no. 1 on his Walkman. His grandpa Gregghenry comes out and gets him so he can say goodbye to his mom, who is dying of cancer. His mom gives him a present and tells him his father was an angel and that Peterquillwyattoleff.uill is just like him. She asks for his hand, but he's too scared to take it. Just then, she dies. The distraught Peterquillwyattoleff.uill runs outside and is abducted by a spaceship.  Twentysix years later on the planet Morag, an adult Peterquillwyattoleff.uill, a.k.a. Starlord Chrispratt, is searching for a mysterious Orb whilst listening to Awesome Mix Tape no. 1. He finds the Orb and takes it out of a laser enclosure. Almost immediately, Korathdjimonhounsou and his henchmen find Peterquillwyattoleff. After a shootout, Peterquillwyattoleff.uill makes it to his ship, the Milano, and escapes.  His partnermentor Yondumichaelrooker.ichaelrooker calls and tells Peterquillwyattoleff.uill to give him the Orb. Peterquillwyattoleff.uill decides he's going to sell it on his own.  On the Kree warship the Darkaster, Korathdjimonhounsou reports to Ronanlee Pace that he failed in getting the Orb and that it's in the hands of Peterquillwyattoleff. nbspRonan wants the Orb because he can trade it to Thanos in exchange for Thanos destroying Xandar. nbsp  Ronan plans to send Nebulakarengillan after Peterquillwyattoleff. but Gamorazoesaldana.oesaldana volunteers. Over Nebula's complaints, Ronan sends Gamorazoesaldana.  On the planet Xandar, Peterquillwyattoleff.uill takes the Orb to a broker Christopherfairbank and asks what it is, because Ronan's goons are after it too. On hearing Ronan's name, the broker suddenly doesn't want anything to do with the Orb. He kicks Peterquillwyattoleff.uill out of his shop. Outside, Gamorazoesaldana.oesaldana jumps Peterquillwyattoleff.uill and tries to retrieve the Orb herself. Nearby, Rocket Raccoonbradleycooper and Grootvindiesel see there's a bounty on Peterquillwyattoleff.s head, so they also try to capture him. Stanlee has a cameo appearance as an old man on Xandar, chatting up a young lady. Rocket calls him a pervert Its not too long before Peterquillwyattoleff. Gamorazoesaldana. Rocket, and Groot are arrested by Nova HQ and sent to a space prison called the Kyln.  Pretty much everyone in prison wants to kill Gamorazoesaldana.oesaldana because she's the daughter of Thanos. Drax the Destroyer Davebautista has a vendetta against her because Ronan killed his wife and daughter, so he wants to avenge them by taking the life of one of Ronan's family members in return. Gamorazoesaldana.oesaldana explains that she's not related to Ronan and she was planning on double crossing him. Peterquillwyattoleff.uill argues in Gamorazoesaldana.s favor.  Meanwhile, at Sanctuary, Ronan reports to Thanosjoshbrolin that Gamorazoesaldana.oesaldana is a traitor. Thanos tells him to take care of her and get the Orb. He also notes that Gamorazoesaldana.oesaldana is his favorite daughter, which angers Nebula .  Back at the space prison, Gamorazoesaldana.oesaldana has a plan to sell the Orb to someone else. Peterquillwyattoleff. Rocket, and Groot agree to help and split the reward. Rocket has a plan to escape the prison. He needs one of the guard's wrist devices, a prisoner's prosthetic leg and a battery from a tall column in the prison. As he explains that it's very important to take the battery last, Groot grabs it first. The alarms go off and security droids fly in. Gamorazoesaldana.oesaldana goes to get a wrist device as Peterquillwyattoleff.uill negotiates for the prisoner's leg. Drax decides to join in the escape, realizing that eventually Ronan will go after Gamorazoesaldana.oesaldana and then he can kill Ronan himself.  Everyone gets the item they agreed to get, and they all make it to a guard station near the top of the prison. Rocket is surprised that Peterquillwyattoleff.uill actually got the leg and says that he  was only kidding, and he didn't really need it. Just as it seems that they have run out of time, Rocket rigs up the stuff to turn off the gravity in the prison and to use the security droids as jets to fly the guard station out of the prison. They escape, but Peterquillwyattoleff.uill leaves the others, telling Rocket that he left something behind. It turns out that he is retrieving his Walkman with the Awesome Mix Tape from one of the guards.  Yondumichaelrooker.ichaelrooker goes to his broker and finds out Peterquillwyattoleff.uill still has the Orb.  Everyone on Peterquillwyattoleff.s ship gets to know one another better. They don't like each other at all. Soon they arrive at Knowhere  to meet with the Collector. While they wait for their appointment, Drax, Rocket, and Groot get drunk and gamble. Gamorazoesaldana.oesaldana and Peterquillwyattoleff.uill bond over music. He explains that his mom made him the mix tape of her favorite songs. She listens and likes it. He asks her to dance, but she doesn't trust him. He says it reminds him of an old fable about other people who didn't dance. It was called Footloose. He makes a pass at her, but she says she's not one of the doeeyed girls he's used to and she won't fall for his pelvic sorcery.  Before they can meet with the Collector, Drax, Rocket, and Groot  get into a big fight. Drax thinks Groot is dumb and Rocket is tired of people calling him a rodent. Peterquillwyattoleff.uill talks them out of fighting. The Collector's assistant fetches them and they all go to meet him. Drax goes off on his own and makes a call.  The Collector Beniciodeltoro has a giant assortment of collectibles, including many from the Marvel Universe, and even Cosmo the Soviet space dog. The Collector puts the orb into a kind of lathe, which unscrews the two halves of the Orb to reveal an Infinity Stone. The Collector explains that the Infinity Stone is an allpowerful thing. There are more of them and they can destroy planets. The Collector's assistant suddenly grabs the stone. The Infinity Stone is poisoning her, and then she and everything in the area blow up. Most of the people survive, along with Cosmo the Soviet space dog. Peterquillwyattoleff.uill and the others manage to escape with the Orb holding the Infinity Stone. They decide the safest place to take the stone is Nova Headquarters. It's too dangerous to be anywhere else.  Suddenly the group is ambushed by Ronan and his crew. They find out that Drax called Ronan. Drax was tired of waiting to face Ronan, so he told Ronan where they were. Yondumichaelrooker.ichaelrooker shows up too. Gamorazoesaldana. Rocket and Peterquillwyattoleff.yattoleff take off in single passenger ships while Nebula and some of Ronan's goons chase after them. Drax tries to fight Ronan, but gets beaten up badly. Ronan says he doesn't even remember killing Drax's family, nor will he remember killing Drax now.  Nebula chases Gamorazoesaldana.s ship above the atmosphere and blows it up. Nebula gets the Infinity Stone and leaves Gamorazoesaldana.oesaldana floating in space to die. Peterquillwyattoleff.uill realizes that he can't allow Gamorazoesaldana.oesaldana to die, so he calls Yondumichaelrooker.ichaelrooker to tell him where he is, then exits his ship, and floats to Gamorazoesaldana. where he gives her his mask to keep her alive.  Yondumichaelrooker.ichaelrooker arrives and collects Peterquillwyattoleff.uill and Gamorazoesaldana.oesaldana with a tractor beam right before they would have died. This is where we see that Yondumichaelrooker.s ship is the same ship that abducted Peterquillwyattoleff.uill as a child.  Meanwhile, onboard the Darkaster, Ronan tells Thanos that now that he  has the Infinity Stone, he can cut Thanos out of the deal. Instead, he will destroy Xandar himself and then go after Thanos. He puts the Infinity Stone into his hammer.  Back on Yondumichaelrooker.s ship, Yondumichaelrooker.ichaelrooker is going to kill Peterquillwyattoleff.uill for doublecrossing him, but he doesn't when Peterquillwyattoleff.uill says that he has a plan to get the Orb back. Meanwhile on Knowhere, Drax, Groot, and Rocket decide to join forces and save Peterquillwyattoleff.uill and Gamorazoesaldana.oesaldana from Yondumichaelrooker. They fly the Milano to Yondumichaelrooker.s ship and threaten to blow it up with a special weapon Rocket built unless Yondumichaelrooker.ichaelrooker releases Peterquillwyattoleff.uill and Gamorazoesaldana. Peterquillwyattoleff.uill emerges from the crowd aboard Yondumichaelrooker.s ship, and persuades Rocket that he doesn't need to be rescued.  Now on board the Milano, Peterquillwyattoleff.uill explains that they must prevent Ronan from touching the Infinity Stone to the ground of Xandar, which will wipe out the planet, and that he has a plan to stop Ronan. The others ask Peterquillwyattoleff.uill if he really has a plan, or if he was lying. He says he has part of a plan. After much discussion, he says that he has 12 of a plan. Everyone scoffs, except Groot who says  that this is more than 11 of a plan. Rocket says that they will most likely die if they try to stop Ronan. Peterquillwyattoleff.uill points out that they've already lost so much, that at this point they have nothing to lose. Slowly, each of them stands up and announces that he will join the fight against Ronan.  Peterquillwyattoleff.uill warns Nova HQ that Ronan is coming to destroy them and they should get ready, telling them that they should believe his message, because he's not 100 a dick.  Rocket's idea is to blow a hole in Ronan's ship so Peterquillwyattoleff. Groot, Drax and Gamorazoesaldana.oesaldana can board it. Gamorazoesaldana.oesaldana is going to cut the power for Ronan's security and then they're going to blow him up with a cannon that Rocket made.  They start the plan. Rocket blows a hole in the Darkaster and then helps Yondumichaelrooker.ichaelrooker and his men defend Xandar against Ronan's fighter ships. Yondumichaelrooker.ichaelrooker is shot down. On the ground, told to surrender, he instead uses his arrow weapon to take out an entire platoon of goons.  On the Darkaster, Gamorazoesaldana.oesaldana and Nebula get into a big fight, while Drax, Peterquillwyattoleff.uill and Groot go to the bridge of the ship.  Dozens of Nova ships link together to form a giant net and slow the descent of the Darkaster. Gamorazoesaldana.oesaldana finally beats Nebula, who falls, landing on a Ravager ship and commandeers it, throwing the Pilot of the ship out the window and flying away. Ronan orders his ships to kamikaze into Xandar. Rocket and Yondumichaelrooker.s men shoot as many of the ships down as they can.  Almost to the bridge, Drax kills Korrath. Groot grows a long thin branch and impales many goons. He then whips them around taking out even more. Everyone makes it to the bridge to fight Ronan. Again, he's too strong for them, but Peterquillwyattoleff.uill manages to shoot Ronan with Rocket's super cannon. It does nothing. Rocket crashes the Milano into the bridge and seems to have destroyed Ronan. The entire ship is plummeting towards Xandar, so Groot forms a giant nest around all of them for safety. Rocket is upset because he knows that what Groot is doing will end up killing him. Groot, who up to this point has only said I Am Groot, responds with  We are Groot.  The ship crashes. Everyone except Groot is okay. Groot is a pile of twigs strewn all about. The battle isnot over though, because Ronan is still fine. He sarcastically calls Peterquillwyattoleff.uill and his crew the Guardians of the Galaxy. As he raises his hammer for a final blow, Peterquillwyattoleff.yattoleff stands up and starts to dance to the song Oohooh Child, and challenges Ronan to a danceoff. Ronan asks what he's doing. Peterquillwyattoleff.uill responds distracting you as Drax and Rocket shoot Ronan's hammer at Ronan, releasing the Infinity Stone. Peterquillwyattoleff.uill grabs the Infinity Stone before Ronan. Peterquillwyattoleff.uill starts to be affected in the same way as the Collector's assistant. Holding the stone is going to kill him, but Gamorazoesaldana.oesaldana tells him to take her hand. He flashes back to when he didn't have the courage to take his mom's hand, and he now grabs Gamorazoesaldana.s. Drax and Rocket hold hands with the others, and the power from the Infinity Stone is spread among the four of them, and they all survive. They kill Ronan. Rocket collects one of the sticks that was once Groot.  Yondumichaelrooker.ichaelrooker appears and demands the Stone as per his original deal with Peterquillwyattoleff. Peterquillwyattoleff.uill hands him the Orb. As Yondumichaelrooker.ichaelrooker and his men take off, one of them notes that he likes Peterquillwyattoleff.uill and he's glad they didn't take him back to his dad like they were supposed to all those years ago.  Gamorazoesaldana.oesaldana is upset that Peterquillwyattoleff.uill gave up the stone. Peterquillwyattoleff.uill reveals that he switched the Orbs, and he still has the one with the stone.  At Nova HQ, they turn over the Orb that contains the Infinity Stone and Peterquillwyattoleff.uill learns he's only half human and half something ancient and unknown. They speculate that his nonhuman genes allowed him to hold the Infinity Stone without dying.  There is a party on Yondumichaelrooker.s ship. His crew is celebrating but Yondumichaelrooker.ichaelrooker looks suspiciously at the Orb and then decides to open it. In it is a troll doll. He smiles.  Peterquillwyattoleff.uill finally opens the present his mom gave him before she died. It's a cassette labeled Awesome Mix Tape no. 2. He asks the Guardians where they want to go. Gamorazoesaldana.oesaldana says, You lead, Starlord. He asks if they want something good or something bad. He then decides they should do something that is both. Rocket holds a pot in which he has stuck the stick that he retrieved after Groot's sacrifice. We can see the face of a tiny Groot on the stick.  End Credits  During the credits, the baby Groot  dances in his pot to Peterquillwyattoleff.s 1980s music, with Drax in the background. The baby Groot stops when Drax looks at him, but he starts again when Drax looks away.  After the credits The Collector is sitting on the wreckage, drinking, when Cosmo the Soviet space dog comes up and licks his face. We hear a voice that says that's gross. The camera turns to reveal Howard the Duck sitting on a broken cage, drinking as well.