After burying Dobby at the garden of the Shell cottage, Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe convinces Griphookwarwickdavis to help them get to Lestrange's vault in Gringotts, to retrieve one of Voldemortralphfiennes's Horcruxes in exchange for Godricgryffindor's Sword. Meanwhile, Ollivanderjohnhurt, the Wandmaker warns Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe that he won't stand a chance with Voldemortralphfiennes who has the Elderwand. They arrived in Gringotts, Hermioneemmawatson disguised as Bellatrixhelenabonhamcarter, using a Polyjuice Potion, Ronrupertgrint disguised as a random wizard while Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe and Griphookwarwickdavis go under the Invisibility Cloak. With the help of Imperius curse, they manage to get to the carts that take them down to the vaults, but when their cover is blown, Gringotts security attacks them. They manage to get to Lestrange's vault and find the Horcrux, Helgahufflepuff's Cup, at which Griphookwarwickdavis betrays them and flees with the sword yelling Thieves Thieves Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe grabs the Horcrux and the trio escape using a captive dragon. As they swim ashore of a lake, after jumping off the dragon, Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe has a vision about Voldemortralphfiennes receiving the news that the Horcrux was stolen. Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe sees that Voldemortralphfiennes is angry and scared. Voldemortralphfiennes kills the goblins, including Griphookwarwickdavis, that bring him the news. Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe also sees that the next Horcrux is related to Rowenaravenclaw, and is in Hogwarts castle.  The three Apparate to Hogsmeade in hopes of sneaking into the school but a Caterwauling charm is set off that warns the Death Eaters of the trio's arrival. They are saved by Aberforthdumbledoreciarnhinds, Albusseveruspotter's brother, who Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe has seen through the mirror that he has. The trio use a passageway to Hogwarts provided by Aberforthdumbledoreciarnhinds, with Nevillelongbottommatthewlewis leading the way. The group arrives at the Room of Requirement where Dumbledoremichaelgambon's Army made a resistance from Snapealanrickman's regime. As headmaster, Snapealanrickman has turned Hogwarts into a lifeless prison. Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe confronts him in front of the entire school by saying, How dare you stand where he stood. Tell them how it happened that night. How you looked him in the eye, a man who trusted you, and killed him . Minervamcgonagallmaggiesmith intervenes and fights Albusseveruspotter, who flees to his master. Meanwhile, Voldemortralphfiennes has summoned his army and surrounds Hogwarts.  McGonagall and the other Hogwarts staff made a barrier to keep the school safe from any attack. Hermioneemmawatson and Ron go to the Chamber of Secrets to get a basilisk fang , destroy Hufflepuff's Cup, and abruptly kiss. Harrypotterdanielradcliffe. with the help of Rowenaravenclaw's ghost daughter, Bellatrixhelenabonhamcarter, finds out that the Ravenclaw Diadem was hidden, by Voldemortralphfiennes, in the Room of Requirement. He goes there, but is confronted by Malfoytomfelton and friends. When one of Malfoytomfelton's cohorts creates an unstoppable fire , Harrypotterdanielradcliffe. Ron and Hermioneemmawatson rush to escape on brooms. They save Malfoytomfelton and his other friend on the way. They destroy the diadem using a basilisk fang. Voldemortralphfiennes uses the Elderwand to destroy the shield around Hogwarts.  Voldemortralphfiennes and Snapealanrickman then meet in the boat house, where Voldemortralphfiennes tells Snapealanrickman that the Elderwand is not truly his, because he is not the master of it that Snapealanrickman is the master of the wand because Snapealanrickman killed Dumbledoremichaelgambon, the previous master. So, Voldemortralphfiennes attacks Snapealanrickman, and then orders Nagini to kill him.  Meanwhile, Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe had been looking into Voldemortralphfiennes's mind to see where he was, and so knew that he was in the boathouse. Harrypotterdanielradcliffe. Ron and Hermioneemmawatson witness all of this, and when Voldemortralphfiennes disapparates, go into the boathouse. Snapealanrickman cries a tear of memories, and comments on how Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe has his mother's eyes, and dies.  Voldemortralphfiennes then speaks into the minds of every person in the area. He commands his forces to retreat so that the fighters at Hogwarts can dispose of their dead with dignity. He then tells Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe that, unless he gives himself up in the Forbidden Forest, Voldemortralphfiennes will kill everyone who stands in his way.  Harrypotterdanielradcliffe. Ron, and Hermioneemmawatson go back to the castle and find that Lupindavidthewlis, Tonksnataliatena, and Fredjamesphelps have all died. Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe goes to the Headmaster's office, where he uses the Pensieve to view Snapealanrickman's memories. Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe learns that Snapealanrickman has been on the good side ever since Voldemortralphfiennes decided to kill Lilypotter . Snapealanrickman loved Lilypotter almost his entire life, and promised to do anything for Dumbledoremichaelgambon as long as he protected her. Then, when she was murdered, Snapealanrickman promised to protect Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe in her place. We learn that Dumbledoremichaelgambon had told Snapealanrickman to kill him, as he would die soon anyway. We then learn that Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe is a Horcrux. Voldemortralphfiennes accidentally created one that fateful night at Godric's Hollow. For this reason, Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe must die.  Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe then goes to the Forbidden Forest and opens the snitch . The Resurrection Stone appears inside the snitch, and Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe uses it to bring back his deceased loved ones. Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe faces Voldemortralphfiennes who uses the killing curse to kill Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.  Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe wakes up and talks with Dumbledoremichaelgambon in a 'heavenlike place. They talk a little, and Dumbledoremichaelgambon says that Voldemortralphfiennes actually killed the bit of his soul that was in Harrypotterdanielradcliffe. and not Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe himself. So, Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe decides to go back to the Forbidden Forest .  Voldemortralphfiennes has Narcissamalfoyhelenmccrory check if Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe is alive. When she reaches Harrypotterdanielradcliffe. she finds that he is alive, and asks Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe quietly if Draco is still alive. Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe nods, and she pronounces him dead.  Believing that he is truly dead, Voldemortralphfiennes's army marches down to the defenseless Hogwarts while Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe is being carried by the tied Hagridrobbiecoltrane. Voldemortralphfiennes torments the students and staff as they are now vulnerable and he's ready for anyone who wants to join him. Nevillelongbottommatthewlewis then gives a moving speech in which he says that although Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe is dead, the fight is not over. He then gets the sword of Gryffindor from the sorting hat. Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe reveals himself to be alive and casts a spell to Voldemortralphfiennes and his army. Many of the other Death Eaters flee, including the Malfoytomfelton family. Battle ensues inside the castle, and Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe and Voldemortralphfiennes face off and continuously cast spells at each other. On the other hand, Hermioneemmawatson and Ron try to kill the last Horcrux, Nagini. However, they fail to do so. However, when the snake is about to kill them, Nevillelongbottommatthewlewis kills it by decapitating its head using the sword of Gryffindor.  Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe and Voldemortralphfiennes cast spells at each other, and Voldemortralphfiennes's killing curse backfires, and kills him, as the Elderwand flies to Harrypotterdanielradcliffe. Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe explains to Ron and Hermioneemmawatson that Draco was master of the wand, not Snapealanrickman, because Draco disarmed Dumbledoremichaelgambon before Snapealanrickman killed him. Then, at Malfoytomfelton Manor, Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe disarmed Draco, making Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe the true master of the wand. Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe then snaps the wand in two, and throws it away forever.  19 years later, Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe and Ginnybonniewright are now parents and are guiding Albusseveruspotter and their other children into platform 9 34. When Albusseveruspotter is nervous about being sorted into Slytherin, Harrypotterdanielradcliffe.otterdanielradcliffe reveals to him that the sorting hat will take your opinion into account. The Potters meet up with Ron and Hermioneemmawatson  who then watch as their kids ride away on Hogwarts express.