The movie opens with outlaws Jackcolby , Benmiller , and Jimpierce  meeting up on horseback and riding into the small town of Hadleyville on a Sunday morning. As church bells ring out, the townspeople eye the notorious gang warily. Meanwhile, Marshalwillkane  and pacifist Quaker Amyfowler  are getting married at the Justice of the Peace office. The three outlaws ride through town and settle in outside the train depot to await the noon arrival of gang leader Frankmiller.  Marshalkane and his radiant bride are congratulated by the town mayor  and the retired Marshal , and Marshalkane reluctantly hangs up his star per his wife's wishes. Just then a telegram arrives announcing the pardon of Frankmiller, who Marshalkane had arrested and sent to prison for murder years earlier. The station master declares that Benmiller is coming on the noon train. Along with the arrival of the other three outlaws, it is obvious that the Benmiller gang is reuniting to come after Marshalkane and the judge who sentenced Benmiller. Marshalkane and Amyfowler are quickly hustled out of town in hopes of avoiding bloodshed. Once out on the open road, Marshalkane suddenly turns his buckboard around and tells a bewildered Amyfowler that he can't run from his past. Besides, the new Marshal won't arrive until the following day and the town will be defenseless. Back in town, the worldweary judge who sentenced Benmiller to prison is packing up his office and getting out of town. He advises Marshalkane to do the same.  Marshalkane.s hotheaded young deputy, Harveypell , who was passed over for the Marshal's job, presses Marshalkane to turn over the reins to him and get out of town. Marshalkane declines. Complicating things is the fact that Deputy Harveypell has taken up with saloon owner Helenramirez , a former lover of both Marshalkane and Frankmiller. With Benmiller coming back, Helenramirez decides to sell the saloon and leave town. Determined not to be a widow, Amyfowler also buys a ticket on the departing noon train.  At the train depot, Benmiller grows impatient and rides in to pay a visit to the town saloon, where he is welcomed like a returning hero. As Benmiller leaves, he runs straight into Marshalkane and they exchange glares. Marshalkane enters the unfriendly confines of the saloon to ask for volunteers and overhears the surly bartender speculating he will soon be shot dead. An angry Marshalkane knocks him to the floor. The jeering saloon patrons rebuff Marshalkane and he leaves empty handed. Marshalkane then pays a visit to the packed church and interrupts the sermon to ask for help. A heated debate erupts among the parishioners, and a lesson in civics follows as a few brave citizens stand up for Marshalkane and the rest find excuses to avoid conflict. The realization that he may be fighting alone begins to dawn on Marshalkane. A visit to the retired and cynical former Marshal only produces another rejection.  Meanwhile, Amyfowler drops in on a surprised Helenramirez, searching for an answer to Marshalkane.s stubborn refusal to leave. Amyfowler thinks her husband is staying because of Helenramirez. Helenramirez sets her straight. In a moment of weakness, Marshalkane goes to the livery stable and thinks about saddling his horse and leaving. Deputy Harveypell sees him and follows him in, pressuring him to leave. When Marshalkane resists, Harveypell slugs him. A desperate fistfight ensues, which Marshalkane wins. Marshalkane goes to the barber's office to clean up and hears the undertaker building a coffin.  Back at the Marshal's office, the one man who has volunteered to stand with Marshalkane backs out when he discovers they will be alone. After the man leaves, Marshalkane makes out his will and leaves it in a desk drawer. The clock ticks down the last seconds before noon. Suddenly, the shrill whistle of the approaching train sounds. The three outlaws lace up their gunbelts as the train nears. In a heartwrenching scene, Marshalkane steps out onto the street just as Amyfowler and Helenramirez drive by on their way to the station. Amyfowler looks away, but Helenramirez doesn't. Just as the two women arrive at the station, Frankmiller steps off the train, makes eye contact with Helenramirez, and turns away to strap on a gun belt. In an iconic scene, the camera goes wide to reveal Marshalkane all alone on the deserted streets.  The Benmiller gang walks into town, where Marshalkane is waiting. Marshalkane catches a break when foolish Benmiller smashes a shop window to steal a hat. Marshalkane circles behind the gang on their blind side and calls out. When they whirl around, Marshalkane drops Benmiller. Amyfowler hears the gunshot as the train pulls out and jumps off. She runs into town to find Benmiller dead in the street. Marshalkane is soon caught in a crossfire and takes refuge in the hayloft of the livery stable. Colby rushes the stable, only to be gunned down by Marshalkane. The remaining two outlaws set fire to the stables and prepare to shoot Marshalkane as he is smoked out. Marshalkane drives the frantic horses out, concealing himself Indianstyle in the midst of the fleeing horses. He escapes, but not without getting shot off his horse. The wounded Marshalkane holes up in a small store as Benmiller and Jimpierce pour shots Into the building. Jimpierce stops to reload in front of the Marshal's office across the street and is suddenly shot in the back at close range. As he collapses, Amyfowler is revealed behind the shattered window, gun in hand. Frankmiller realizes what has happened and takes Amyfowler hostage, using her as a shield to approach Marshalkane.s position. Benmiller calls Marshalkane out, threatening to kill Amyfowler unless he shows himself. Marshalkane lowers his gun and steps out. Knowing that Benmiller is about to kill her husband, Amyfowler spins around and claws Benmiller.s face as he throws her down. Marshalkane quickly takes aim and kills Benmiller. As the townspeople flood into the street, Marshalkane.s wagon is driven up so the couple can resume their wedding journey. Willkane surveys the ungrateful townspeople scornfully and drops his tin star into the dust.