A Viking boy called Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel introduces his village of Berk . The village is attacked by dragons, who steal food  and set things on fire . The villagers grab weapons and try to fight the dragons off. Despite being told by every adult in sight to go indoors, Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel hauls out a bolasshooting cannon he made himself and shoots a dragon out of the night sky. Craigferguson, Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel has access to tools and materials and knows how to use them. The dragon lands in the woods some distance form the village and no one believes that he hit anything, so it's the next day before Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel can go looking for it. It turns out to be a rare and deadly Night Fury, but Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel can't make himself kill it. Instead he releases it  whereupon it also refrains from killing Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel  and it flies off through the trees.  Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel discovers that the dragon  has holed up in a steepsided valley because it can no longer fly more than a few feet at a time. While sketching the dragon, Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel realizes that it's missing a tail fin. He makes a prosthetic tail fin out of leather. The new fin helps, but Toothless can't control it and inadvertently takes Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel for a ride, giving him a clear idea of what's needed to help the dragon fly right. In a series of workshop and test flight scenes, Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel builds and perfects a saddle, a control mechanism for the tail fin, and a safety harness.  Meanwhile, Hiccupjaybaruchel.s father Stoickgerardbutler has signed him up for dragon training with Gobber, which is very different from the training he's already doing with Toothless he's going to learn to fight dragons. At first, he's the worst student in the class. Since Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel has always been an accidentprone klutz, this comes as no surprise to his classmates Astrid America Ferrera, Snotloutjonahhill, Fishlegschristophermintzplasse, Ruffnutkristenwiig, and her twin brother Tuffnut T.J. Miller.  Before long, Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel is able to use some things he's learned while working with Toothless to soothe and manage the school's practice dragons. . When Stoickgerardbutler returns from a failed search for the fabled nest of the dragons, he's surprised but thrilled to hear that his son is doing brilliantly at dragon training. He gives Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel a horned helmet made from one of his dead mother's breastplates. But Hiccupjaybaruchel. as usual, is unable to get around his father's expectations and speak frankly, so he can't explain that his success at dragon school is unlikely to lead to the slaying of any dragons.  When Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel subdues a practice dragon, unintentionally earning the privilege of killing it before the entire village, he's horrified and decides to flee with Toothless. However Astrid, having noticed Hiccupjaybaruchel.s frequent disappearances and secretive behavior, is suspicious. She follows him to the hidden valley and sees Toothless. Unable to explain his relationship with the dragon, Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel takes her flying, and she's captivated. But they get caught up in a flock of dragons returning to their nest carrying food. The dragons fly inside a mountainous island and drop the food into a pit, which turns out to contain a huge, terrifying, and very hungry dragon that eats the smaller ones if they don't bring it enough food. Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel and Astrid and shocked to realize that the dragons have been stealing their sheep to keep from being eaten themselves. When they get home, Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel convinces Astrid not to reveal the location of the dragon nest. Before she goes, she punches him in the arm and says That's for kidnapping me. Then she kisses him and says That's for everything else.  Everything goes wrong at the dragonkilling ceremony. Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel discards his weapons in an attempt to show the Vikings that dragons only fight to defend themselves, but Stoickgerardbutler and others intervene and the dragon attacks. Toothless comes to the rescue and is on the verge of killing Stoickgerardbutler when Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel calls Toothless off. Despite Hiccupjaybaruchel.s protests, the angry Vikings chain Toothless up. When he ineptly tries to explain, Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel lets it slip that Toothless took him to the nest of the dragons, and Stoickgerardbutler resolves to use Toothless to find the nest again. He won't listen to Hiccupjaybaruchel.s warnings about the giant dragon. He loads Toothless on his ship and the Viking fleet sails off with all the warriors in the village, disowning Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel and leaving him behind. When Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel wonders aloud why he didn't kill Toothless when he had the chance since it would have avoided all of this, Astrid challenges him to explain why. In doing so, Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel comes to an epiphany about his moral character, his personal strength and Astrid's faith in him. Inspired, Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel and his classmates mount the practice dragons and fly off in pursuit of the fleet.  At the dragons' island, the Vikings use catapults to break open the side of the mountain in which the giant dragon is trapped. When it comes out, Stoickgerardbutler realizes that he's made a mistake. He resolves to fight it himself to buy the other Vikings time to escape Gobber volunteers to join him. While Stoickgerardbutler and Gobber prepare to sacrifice themselves to distract the dragon, the kids arrive to join the battle. They do manage to distract the giant dragon a little, but it sets the Vikings' ships on fire. While his comrades keep the giant dragon occupied, Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel tries to rescue Toothless  from the burning ship, but they end up under water and Stoickgerardbutler rescues both of them. Then Toothless and Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel go after the giant dragon together. They draw it up into the clouds and away from the Vikings, trying to get it to crash on the island. In the end Toothless releases a blast into the giant dragon's open mouth and it crashes and burns, apparently taking our heroes down with it  we see Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel fall toward the fire as Toothless tries desperately to catch him. On the ground, a heartbroken Stoickgerardbutler approaches the wounded Toothless wondering what has become of his son Toothless opens his wings to show that he saved Hiccupjaybaruchel.   Back at home, Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel wakes up and Toothless urges him out of bed. Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel finds that he lost his left foot in the battle with the giant dragon. However, Gobber has made him a new one, ingeniously springloaded.  They go out into the village, which is full of swooping, frolicking dragons the Vikings now treat them as pets. Astrid greets Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel with a kiss. Supplied by Gobber with a new tail fin prosthetic and saddle for Toothless, Hiccupjaybaruchel.aybaruchel takes flight with Astrid and his friends as he exults at the new alliance of Vikings and Dragons.