A young man, exhausted and delirious, washes up on a beach, looking up momentarily to see two young children Clairegeare and  Magnusnolan playing in the sand before he passes out. An armed guard Tohorumasamune discovers him and has him brought to a large, seaside palace where the proprietor, an elderly Japanese man, is told of the stranger's arrival. The only objects found on him were a handgun and a brass top. The old man allows the stranger entry. He is dragged in and given some food which he struggles to eat as the old man picks up the brass top and says, You remind me of someone.a man I met in a half remembered dream. He was possessed of some radical notions. The stranger looks up in realization as the scene shifts.  Domcobbleonardodicaprio and his partner, Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt, speak to a prospective client, Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe, in an eerily similar dining room about the services they provide specifically protection against thieves specialized in extracting valuable information from a subject while they're dreaming. Domcobbleonardodicaprio explains that, when one is asleep, one's mind is vulnerable to attack and what he can do is train Saitokenwatanabe.s mind to subconsciously defend against extractors to protect whatever secrets he may be hiding. He backs up his claim by revealing that he is the most skilled extractor there is and knows all the tricks involved. Appearing skeptical, Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe stands to leave, telling Domcobbleonardodicaprio he will consider his proposition, and exits the room to join a small party in the main hall.  Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt casts Domcobbleonardodicaprio a glance, saying, He knows as the room begins to shake. They walk to an outside balcony where other partygoers mingle and Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt points to a woman nearby, asking Domcobbleonardodicaprio what she's doing here. Domcobbleonardodicaprio assures him that he'll take care of it and to proceed with the job. He knows where Saitokenwatanabe.s secrets are he glanced over at a safe the minute Domcobbleonardodicaprio mentioned the word.  Domcobbleonardodicaprio approaches the woman who asks if he misses her. He responds that he does but can't trust her anymore. They retreat to a private room where Domcobbleonardodicaprio ties a rope to the leg of a chair and tosses the end out of the window. He tells the woman, Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard, to take a seat as she asks him if the children miss her. Domcobbleonardodicaprio pauses a moment before saying, I can't imagine. He then repels out the window to a ledge below, nearly falling when Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard leaves her seat. He breaks into the room below and accesses the safe, swapping out the manila folder inside for another, as the lights in the room turn on. He turns with his gun out to see Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard aiming a gun at him and standing beside Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe and a guard holding Arthurjosephgordonlevitt. Domcobbleonardodicaprio asks Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe if 'she told him' as he slides his gun across the table. Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe responds, That you are here to steal from me, or that we are actually asleep  This proves true the three of them are hooked up to a PASIV  device which feeds them the sleep drug Somnacin, keeping them all asleep and allowing dreamsharing. They are watched over by Nashlukashaas, another of Domcobbleonardodicaprio.s partners. He checks Saitokenwatanabe. sleeping on a bed, before going into another room to check on Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt and Domcobbleonardodicaprio. both asleep in chairs. Domcobbleonardodicaprio.s chair sits above a tub full of water. Explosions and shouts outside get closer as a mob of rioters moves down the street.  Inside the dream, Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard holds her gun to Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.s head but Domcobbleonardodicaprio tells her the threat is empty, as he hands the manila folder over to Saitokenwatanabe. since shooting him will only wake him up. Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard smiles in agreement but says that pain is only in the mind and perceived as real as she shoots Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt in the knee, causing him to cry out. Domcobbleonardodicaprio dives across the table and retrieves his gun before shooting Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt in the head. He then dashes out of the room under gunfire from Saitokenwatanabe.s guards.  Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt wakes up and instructs Nashlukashaas that things are falling apart but Domcobbleonardodicaprio still has time to finish the job before he checks on the still sleeping Saitokenwatanabe.  Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe frantically opens the manila folder as the dream begins to collapse and shouts in anger as he finds blank pages inside. Domcobbleonardodicaprio manages to hide away for a moment to look at the contents of the real folder which he'd hidden in his jacket, gazing over the confidential files as the building crumbles around him. Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe is crushed by debris and wakes up in the apartment, unseen to Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt as he reaches under his pillow. Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt tells Nashlukashaas to wake Domcobbleonardodicaprio by giving him the kick. Nashlukashaas pushes Domcobbleonardodicaprio backwards into the tub and, as he hits the water, Domcobbleonardodicaprio.s dream is flooded with massive waves cascading through the windows before he wakes up. Saitokenwatanabe. having reached under his pillow for his gun, grabs Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt but is subdued by Domcobbleonardodicaprio who tells him that not all the information he needed was in the file he stole. Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe laughs and claims that all the information he had was in the file because he knew of Domcobbleonardodicaprio.s ruse all along. He allowed Domcobbleonardodicaprio and Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt into his mind as part of an audition which they failed, saying that 'your deception was obvious.'  Asserting that his employer, Cobol Engineering, won't accept failure, Domcobbleonardodicaprio throws Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe on the floor and demands that he tell them what they need to know about his expansion project. With his face pressed into the carpet, Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe begins to laugh again and reveals that he is familiar with the material of the carpet it is supposed to be made of wool instead of polyester. Thus, he comes to the conclusion that he is still sleeping.  Sure enough, Saitokenwatanabe. Arthurjosephgordonlevitt. Nashlukashaas, and Domcobbleonardodicaprio are all asleep in the car of a train, watched over by a young man named Tadashitaililee who monitors the time remaining on the PASIV device. He places headphones over Nashlukashaas's ears and plays music as a cue that their time is running out. The music plays faintly within the dream but enough that Nashlukashaas can hear it. As the rioting mob outside draws nearer, Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe commends Domcobbleonardodicaprio on creating a dream within a dream but becomes confused at his inability to control this dream. Nashlukashaas reveals that they're not in Saitokenwatanabe.s dream.they're in his. The mob breaks through the door, attacking everyone in the room, and Arthurjosephgordonlevitt. Nashlukashaas, and Domcobbleonardodicaprio wake up on the train. Domcobbleonardodicaprio berates Nashlukashaas, the architect of the dream, for designing the carpet wrong and throws Tadashitaililee a wad of money before leaving, telling them 'every man for himself'. Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe wakes up moments later to find himself alone in the car, save for Tadashitaililee who's resumed a casual pose, but smiles wryly to himself. In his apartment, Domcobbleonardodicaprio spins his brass top and takes his gun, pointing it at his temple as the top spins. When it falls, he breathes a sigh of relief and puts the gun down. His phone rings and he picks it up to hear his two children, James and Phillipajohnathangeare and  Taylorgeare, on the other line with their grandmother. They ask when he's coming home and he responds that he can't because of work. When James asks if their mother is with him  an image of Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard crosses his mind  Domcobbleonardodicaprio pauses and tells him that 'mommy's not here anymore'. He tells them to behave and that he'll send presents with grandpa before their grandmother hangs up.  Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt knocks on the door and tells Domcobbleonardodicaprio their ride is on the roof. Domcobbleonardodicaprio decides to fly to Buenos Aires to lie low in lieu of their failed job for Cobol while Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt says he's returning 'stateside'. Domcobbleonardodicaprio asks him to send his regards as they open the door to the helicopter and see Nashlukashaas, beaten and bruised, and Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe waiting for them. Apparently, Nashlukashaas had tried to sell out Domcobbleonardodicaprio and Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt for his own safety but Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe has other interests. He offers Domcobbleonardodicaprio a job performing 'inception' for him, something Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt claims is impossible. Domcobbleonardodicaprio. however, says that it's not impossible but extremely difficult since it involves planting an idea in someone's mind rather than extracting one. He turns away, insisting that he'll find a way to resolve relations with Cobol himself but Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe then asks him if he wants to go home to his children in America. He promises Domcobbleonardodicaprio that, if he succeeds, all he will need to do is make a phone call and the charges keeping Domcobbleonardodicaprio out of the country will be dropped. Desperate, and to Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.s exasperation, Domcobbleonardodicaprio accepts.  They board the helicopter with Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe while two thugs carry Nashlukashaas away to an uncertain fate. En route, Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt explains to Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe the nature of inception, telling him that simply planting an idea in someone's head does not guarantee that the idea will take. The subject may very well discover that the idea is not theirs and reject it. True inspiration, Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt claims, is impossible, despite Domcobbleonardodicaprio.s thoughts otherwise. Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe shares with them his reasoning for the job he needs the CEO of a competing energy conglomerate to split up his father's company, ensuring Saitokenwatanabe.s own Proclus Global complete domination over the energy production industry. Despite the daunting task, Domcobbleonardodicaprio agrees to perform the job. Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe drops them off at the airport and advises Domcobbleonardodicaprio to choose his team wisely.  Domcobbleonardodicaprio travels to Paris where he meets up with his fatherinlaw, Milesmichaelcaine, a professor at a university and the one who taught Domcobbleonardodicaprio and Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard about dreamsharing and designing dreams. Domcobbleonardodicaprio asks for an architect, one as good as he, and Milesmichaelcaine points him to someone better. He introduces Domcobbleonardodicaprio to a graduate student of his, Ariadneellenpage who is immediately put to the test by Domcobbleonardodicaprio to design a maze that takes one minute to create and two to solve. After impressing Domcobbleonardodicaprio with her skills, he tells her more about his line of work and what is required of her. Her job as architect will be to design dreams and create virtual mazes for the dreamers subconscious to inhabit while allowing Domcobbleonardodicaprio and his team to work. As they talk outside a caf, Domcobbleonardodicaprio attempts to make Ariadne aware that they are actually in a dream. The realization causes Ariadne to panic and the dream violently collapses. When they awake, Ariadne finds they are in Domcobbleonardodicaprio.s warehouse workshop where Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt is monitoring them. Ariadne shows surprise when Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt says they'd been under only five minutes when it felt like hours. Domcobbleonardodicaprio explains that the mind functions faster in a dream, so time moves slower. They go under again and Ariadne is given the opportunity to creatively alter the physics of the dream. Her architectural wonders cause the people in the dream  projections of Domcobbleonardodicaprio.s subconscious  to search for the intruder  Ariadne  like white blood cells drawn to a virus. When Ariadne makes the mistake of creating a bridge from her memories, Domcobbleonardodicaprio recognizes it and his subconscious reacts as a mob, separating Ariadne from Domcobbleonardodicaprio until Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard appears and stabs her.  She wakes up and Domcobbleonardodicaprio rushes to the restroom while Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt explains that Domcobbleonardodicaprio.s subconscious became aware of her as an invasive being and she was unable to wake up right away because there was still time on the clock. The only way for her to wake up was if she died. Domcobbleonardodicaprio takes out his top and spins it, sighing as it topples over. Ariadne leaves the warehouse, angry and refusing to open her mind to Domcobbleonardodicaprio if his subconscious is as tormented as it seems. Domcobbleonardodicaprio returns to the room and assures Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt that she'll be back but he needs to make a trip to Mombasa to recruit an old friend to the team. He finds Eamestomhardy gambling at a bar and offers him a place on his team as a forgerimitator. Eames agrees before telling Domcobbleonardodicaprio he's being tailed, pointing to two men at the bar. Domcobbleonardodicaprio recognizes them as Cobol thugs who must be aiming to collect the bounty on his head for the botched Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe job. Eames creates a distraction while Domcobbleonardodicaprio escapes, leading the thugs on a chaotic chase through the city streets. At the last moment, Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe pulls up in a limousine and picks up first Domcobbleonardodicaprio. then Eames. He explains that he's been tracing Domcobbleonardodicaprio to protect his investment.  Eames takes them to a local chemist he knows who experiments with Somnacin and who might be an asset to their team. Yusufdileeprao listens as Domcobbleonardodicaprio explains that his job may require the use of a threelayered dream. Yusufdileeprao says that this would be otherwise impossible, due to the instability of dreams the further down you go, if not for a special solution he's concocted with a powerful sedative. To show its effectiveness, Yusufdileeprao takes them downstairs where they see dozens of men sleeping under the watch of an old man Earlcameron. He tells Domcobbleonardodicaprio that these men come here to 'wake up' dreaming has become their reality. With the aid of the sedative, their sleep is deep and stable and they are able to dream for what feels to them like years. Domcobbleonardodicaprio tries the sedative himself and is impressed with its affects, though shaken after waking from a vivid dream with Malmarioncotillard. He convinces Yusufdileeprao to join his team.  Meanwhile, Ariadne returns to the workshop where she tells Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt that she meant to stay away but couldn't resist the pure creation involved in architectural dreaming. Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt takes her into a dream and introduces the notion of creating paradoxes, such as the Penrose steps. He also reveals that Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard was Domcobbleonardodicaprio.s wife and has since passed away. Despite Malmarioncotillard.s malevolent nature within the dreams  her existence now only as a projection of Domcobbleonardodicaprio.s  Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt tells Ariadne she was lovely in real life.  The team bands together and decides that they will create a threelevel dream with the third level containing the planted idea. The target in mind is Robertfischercillianmurphy, the CEO and heir of Fischermorrow, whose father, Mauricepetepostlethwaite, is slowly decaying with illness. Eames targets Roberts's godfather and business partner, Peterbrowningtomberenger, to get a better grasp on the fatherson dynamic and to use his imitation skills at their best. The team decides that, in order to get Roberts to split up his father's company and because of their complicated relationship, a positive idea will trump a negative one 'my father wants me to be my own man.' Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe oversees most of the plans and, because he wants full verification of any success or failure, decides that he will accompany the team into the dreams as a 'tourist'.  As the team prepares over the next few weeks, Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt shows Ariadne the significance of 'totems' small, personal objects that enables a person to differentiate between dreams and reality. Domcobbleonardodicaprio.s totem is his top, which topples over in the real world and keeps spinning in a dream. Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.s is a loaded die and he instructs Ariadne to create one for herself that only she can touch to ensure its validity. She creates a semihollowed bishop chess piece as her totem. Wanting as much time as possible to complete the job, the team decides, with Saitokenwatanabe.s help, that they will perform the job on a Boeing 747 during an international flight from Europe to Los Angeles, a 10 hour flight. This will give them a week in the first stage of the dreams. Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe reveals that he's bought the entire airline, making the job neater and without having to buy out certain sections of the plane for access.  One evening, after a day of formulating plans, Ariadne finds Domcobbleonardodicaprio dreaming alone in the workshop. Curious, she hooks herself up to his machine and finds herself descending in an elevator. She sees Domcobbleonardodicaprio sitting in a living room with Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard who quickly detects Ariadne's presence. Domcobbleonardodicaprio gets up and joins Ariadne in the elevator, leading her through some of the levels that Ariadne discovers are each specific memories something he originally told her never to do. Horrified after seeing Domcobbleonardodicaprio.s torment over leaving home without saying farewell to his children, Ariadne takes the elevator alone to the last level where she sees a hotel room, the contents of which are strewn on the floor. She steps on some broken glass and Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard looks up from the couch, asking what she's doing here. Ariadne tries to explain that she just wants to understand but Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard becomes defensive and picks up a shard of glass. Domcobbleonardodicaprio arrives and takes Ariadne back to the elevator as Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard rushes forward, shouting at Domcobbleonardodicaprio that he didn't keep his promise.  Ariadne and Domcobbleonardodicaprio exit the dream and Domcobbleonardodicaprio explains that the reason he can't go home is because of Malmarioncotillard.s death, because it was thought that he killed her. He thanks Ariadne when she doesn't ask him if he did or not but she does warn him that he's mistaken if he thinks he can cage Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard like that. He needs to release his guilt over her death. Ariadne convinces Domcobbleonardodicaprio to allow her to go with the team into the dreams because he needs someone who understands what he's going through. At that moment, Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe and Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt arrive and announce that Mauricefischer has died and Roberts will be accompanying the body to the States in a few days.  The team boards the flight and sits with Roberts in a sectionedoff first class cabin. Domcobbleonardodicaprio returns Roberts's passport, pickpocketed by Arthurjosephgordonlevitt. as a conversation starter and then drugs his water before proposing a toast in his father's honor. Within moments, Roberts is asleep and the paidoff flight attendant Miranda Nolan assists setting up and activating the PASIV device. All together, the team descends into, first, Yusufdileeprao's dream. It is raining heavily in New York City as members of the team are picked up. Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt and Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe commandeer a taxi, pick up Roberts and Eames and then Yusufdileeprao as Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe holds a gun to Roberts as part of the kidnap ruse. Domcobbleonardodicaprio and Ariadne follow in a separate car until a train suddenly barges down the middle of the street, hitting their car and temporarily stalling them. Gunfire then opens on the taxi and the team is forced to take immediate evasive maneuvers, hiding out in a warehouse where its discovered that Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe has been shot in the chest.  Roberts is taken into another room while Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe is laid on a table. Before Eames can shoot him to end his misery and wake him up, Domcobbleonardodicaprio stops him and explains that, due to the sedatives they've taken, they won't wake up if they die. Instead, they'll be sent to limbo a shared dreamstate of raw subconscious where time is practically nonexistent. The team is angered by this, wondering why they've taken such a risk, as they contemplate what to do about the armed forces closing in on their location. They find out that Roberts's subconscious has been trained to fight against extraction and the projections attacking them are part of that defense. With Saitokenwatanabe.s condition deteriorating and unable to wait much longer due to the approaching defense projections, the team decides they need to complete the job as quickly as possible.  Ariadne confronts Domcobbleonardodicaprio about the control he has over his own subconscious and he confesses that he can't keep Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard out of his head. He tells her that they had been experimenting with dream states and wanted to see how far down they could go into their subconscious. They wound up in limbo together, unable to leave because of the time remaining on their PASIV clock. They recreated their lives, spending years worth of building. After so long, they began to perceive limbo as their reality. After something like 50 years, Domcobbleonardodicaprio and Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard killed themselves on train tracks to bring them back to reality. Despite returning to the real world, Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard continued to believe that she was still dreaming and believed that dying was the only way to 'wake up', but she refused to leave without Domcobbleonardodicaprio she loved him too much. On their wedding anniversary, Domcobbleonardodicaprio went to the hotel room they always stayed in to find it trashed and the window open. Outside, on an opposite ledge, sat Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard who revealed to Domcobbleonardodicaprio that she filed a letter to their attorney expressing a fear for her life, effectively framing him in the event of her death and forcing him no other way than to join her. Domcobbleonardodicaprio refuses to jump and attempts to bring Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard to her senses, but she ignores him and jumps to her death. Since she declared herself legally sane by three psychiatrists, Domcobbleonardodicaprio.s case for his innocence is overruled by the outstanding evidence against him. With no other choice, Domcobbleonardodicaprio leaves his children behind with their grandmother and flees the country.  Ariadne tries to convince Domcobbleonardodicaprio that Malmarioncotillard.s death was not his fault and that he needs to focus on the mission. Eames prepares himself as an impersonation of Peterbrowningtomberenger while Domcobbleonardodicaprio and Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt interrogate Roberts, demanding to know the combination to his father's safe. They pressure Roberts by using 'Peterbrowningtomberenger' as leverage. Eames shouts from another room as if being beaten before he is brought into the room with Roberts to try and get him to remember. He tells Roberts that the safe contains an alternate version of his father's will, one that will dissolve the company if Roberts chooses so. 'Peterbrowningtomberenger' tells Roberts that his father loved him and wanted him to build something of his own. As Roberts's defenses close in on the warehouse, Roberts reveals that one word he could decipher out of his father's last words was 'disappointed', convincing him that his father didn't love him.  With the warehouse in danger of being infiltrated, the team pressure Roberts once again for a combination. He tells them a series of random numbers that come to mind before they load him into a van and drug him to sleep. They all get in and prepare to enter the second level of the dream while Yusufdileeprao drives the van away from the pursuing projections.  In Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.s dream, Domcobbleonardodicaprio resolves to use 'Mr. Charles', a method in which he introduces the subject to the fact that he's dreaming in order to garner trust. He meets Roberts at a bar and tells him that he is there to protect him and someone is trying to access his mind. He convinces Roberts that he's dreaming by introducing the strangeness of their surroundings and calms Roberts to control them. He helps Roberts remember that he's been kidnapped and leads him to a hotel room  where the rest of the team regroups. Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe is in better health in this level of the dream, but soon begins coughing. Roberts's projection of Peterbrowningtomberenger arrives and he confesses that he was the one behind the kidnapping he couldn't allow Roberts to access the safe and destroy everything that his father built. Domcobbleonardodicaprio suggests to Roberts that they enter Peterbrowningtomberenger's dreams to figure out what was really in the safe so that Roberts can decide for himself. Roberts agrees, now unknowingly assisting in his own inception and the team is hooked up again, this time with Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt remaining behind to watch over them and administer a synchronized kick when its time.  As the team goes into the third dream, in actuality Roberts's, Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt is forced to fight off more of Roberts's defensive projections while in the first dream Yusufdileeprao continues to drive the van. The third dream is set in snow covered mountains where Roberts's safe is heavily guarded in a mountainside fort. The team splits up to draw the guards away. Domcobbleonardodicaprio goes with Ariadne, Eames travels alone to ward off the guards, and Roberts and Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe begin ascending a mountainside to access a blind side of the fort.  Meanwhile, Yusufdileeprao momentarily loses control of the van and it tumbles down an incline, the tumbling effect translates into Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.s dream as he fights off Roberts's projections, the environment around him spinning as gravity reverses and then rights itself. As Yusufdileeprao continues driving, he becomes cornered on an elevated bridge with one car full of projections stuck with him. Yusufdileeprao plays music through Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.s headphones to warn him of the incoming kick before driving backwards off the bridge. Upon impact, the force sends Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt in his dream flying and, as the van plummets in mid air, there is a loss of gravity in Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.s dream. The impact also translates into the third level of the dream. Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe and Roberts look up the mountainside and are forced to cut their lines as an avalanche sweeps down upon them. Domcobbleonardodicaprio realizes they've missed the first kick, but they still have time for the second one when the van hits the water off the bridge.  Van drives off the bridge 10 seconds left to impact.  Dream 2 3 minutes to synchronize the kick. Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt struggles with a way to do this without gravity.  Dream 3 60 minutes left.  With little time left, Domcobbleonardodicaprio demands to know if there is another way into the fort and Ariadne relents into telling him of a secret underground entrance that Roberts and Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe can access. Domcobbleonardodicaprio send them there, all while Saitokenwatanabe.s condition deteriorates. They finally enter the main room where the safe is located while Domcobbleonardodicaprio and Ariadne watch from a snipers angle. Succumbing to his injuries, Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe is left to lay down, coughing blood as Roberts continues forward. However, as Roberts comes into Domcobbleonardodicaprio.s view, so does another person. Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard drops in from the ceiling and shoots Roberts down before Domcobbleonardodicaprio comes to his senses and shoots her. Eames is ordered to the room as Domcobbleonardodicaprio and Ariadne rush to the site. Finding Roberts dead, Domcobbleonardodicaprio labels the mission a failure, since the only other place where Roberts has gone is limbo. Ariadne, however, convinces him that, if they go into limbo, they'll have enough time to find Roberts and bring him back. Eames agrees to use a defibrillator to jump start Roberts heart to help while Domcobbleonardodicaprio and Ariadne go under.  Meanwhile, in dream level 2, Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt devises a unique plan. He uses phone wires to tie the team together and brings them into the elevator. He lines the outside of the car with explosives, timing down till the kick with the intention of using explosive force to create gravity and instigating a kick.  In limbo, Domcobbleonardodicaprio and Ariadne tour the deteriorating world that he and Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard once built. They see old homes and buildings before they find the one where Domcobbleonardodicaprio knows Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard must be. If they find Malmarioncotillard. they'll find Roberts because Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard will want to use something Domcobbleonardodicaprio wants to bring him to her. Sure enough, they enter the apartment and Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard is waiting for them. She tries, again, to convince Domcobbleonardodicaprio that his place is with her in their real home with their children but Domcobbleonardodicaprio reveals a terrible truth, the reason why Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard believed that her dreams were real.  While they were in limbo, Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard had stored away a truth that she didn't want to believe anymore her totem, placed within her safe, lying on its side, immobile telling her that her dream, her limbo, was reality. In an effort to save her mind, Domcobbleonardodicaprio broke into her safe and spun the top to convince her that this world was not real. However, he did not know that, once they really woke up, she would continue to believe that. This was how he knew inception would work because he performed it on Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard first and his guilt over her subsequent death has been plaguing him ever since. He tells Malmarioncotillard.arioncotillard that he will stay with her in limbo if she tells him where Roberts is and she reveals he's on the porch. Ariadne finds him there and pushes him off as an improvised kick.  Roberts comes back to life in dream level 3 with Eames' aid and opens his own safe, finding within an image of his bedstricken father muttering his last word. Roberts acknowledges that his father was disappointed that he couldn't be him, but Mauricefischer says, No.no. I was disappointed that you tried. Mauricefischer then points to a cabinet where Roberts finds the will.and a paper fan his father made for him once as a child. Tearfully, Roberts looks up to see his father has passed and breaks down as the van hits the water.  Dream 2, Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt hits the detonator and the explosives force the elevator down, creating artificial gravity on the team.  Dream 3, a series of explosions set by Eames rock the fort, collapsing the main floor.  In limbo, the synchronization of kicks pulls on Ariadne and she calls for Domcobbleonardodicaprio to join her. Domcobbleonardodicaprio says that he will stay in limbo, but not with Malmarioncotillard. By this time, Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe has died and joined limbo as well. Domcobbleonardodicaprio must find him but promises to return. Ariadne leaps off the side of the building and rides the kicks back to dream 1. In the van, Roberts wakes up and escapes the submerged van with 'Peterbrowningtomberenger'. Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt and Ariadne share an oxygen tank with Yusufdileeprao before they escape the van, leaving Domcobbleonardodicaprio.  Roberts and 'Peterbrowningtomberenger' make it to shore where Roberts reveals that his father really did want him to be his own man and that he's going to do just that and liquidate his father's company. Knowing the mission is a success, Eames drops the Peterbrowningtomberenger mask.  In limbo, Domcobbleonardodicaprio washes ashore where the armed guard finds him. He is brought to the seaside palace where the elderly Japanese man recognizes his brass top. Domcobbleonardodicaprio recalls what he was there to do and calls to Saitokenwatanabe. asking him to come back with him and honor their arrangement. The elderly Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe reaches for Domcobbleonardodicaprio.s gun.  Domcobbleonardodicaprio wakes up on the airplane and looks around, startled, to see Arthurjosephgordonlevitt.osephgordonlevitt and Ariadne smiling at him. He looks at the now awake Saitokenwatanabe.enwatanabe who remembers, picking up his phone and dials. The plane lands in Los Angeles and Domcobbleonardodicaprio nervously moves through customs where security checks his passport, but allows him passage through, welcoming him home. Domcobbleonardodicaprio walks past the rest of the team and Roberts, who pauses a moment as if recalling a halfremembered dream. Ahead of him, Domcobbleonardodicaprio sees Milesmichaelcaine calling him over. They drive home together where Domcobbleonardodicaprio hesitates before taking out his brass top. He spins it on the table in the kitchen as his children appear at the back door. He runs to them, elated to see their faces again as the top continues to spin, wobbles a bit.and the screen turns to black.