The story opens in Monument Valley, Utah, in 1912. A troop of Boy Scouts are exploring the area. One of the Scouts, Indianajones, finds a cave where where a party led by a mercenary wearing a fedora and leather jacket finds the cross of Coronado, a priceless Spanish American artifact. Indyjuniorsallah, believing it belongs in a museum, takes it and is pursued, attempting to escape by horseback. He is followed by the mercenaries in autos, but boards a circus train to elude them. While on the train, he crawls through a car full of snakes  and then finds himself in a car with a lion, from whom he escapes by using a bullwhip he finds hanging on the wall, in which his first attempt backlashes and gives him a cut on his chin . After a few more dangerous encounters, including a near castration by the horn of a rhinoceros annoyed by the tussle on his roof, Indyjuniorsallah escapes the train through a magician's magic box and takes the cross home, where his father is busy working on drawing that looks like a stained glass window. When Indyjuniorsallah excitedly tries to tell his father about it, his father rebuffs him, telling him to calm down by counting to 10 in Greek.  Moments later a fellow scout whom Indyjuniorsallah had sent for the Sheriff when he discovered the illegal dig returns with the sheriff but he is dismayed to find that the burly businessman wearing a panama hat who had hired the mercenaries had also bought the law, and Indyjuniorsallah is forced to surrender the cross to the looters. However, before the head mercenary leaves the house, he says to Indyjuniorsallah You lost this time, Kid, but you don't have to like it,and puts the fedora on the boy's head. As Indyjuniorsallah smiles the scene fades and the scene changes to 1938 aboard a freighter in a violent Atlantic storm. Indyjuniorsallah has tracked down the cross, but is again confronted by the man in the panama hat and his henchmen. He grabs the artifact, fights off the crew and dives into the ocean scant seconds before a massive wave collapses the ship's funnel, causing it to fall onto a load of explosives. As Indyjuniorsallah grabs a life preserver from the wreck, he sees the panama hat sinking nearby. As the hulk of the ship sinks, the name is visible on the bow  Coronado.  Indyjuniorsallah returns to his university and after a moment of comic relief almost identical to the similar scene in Raiders of the Lost Ark gives the artifact Marcusbrody for the museum, then goes to his office, where he is surrounded by a phalanx of students. His secretary Irene gives him a ream of papers to be graded as well as phone messages and a brown paper package from Venice, which he absently stuffs in his pocket. After sitting for a moment in his artifact cluttered office, he sneaks out through his window but is greeted by three men who step from a sinister black sedan. They ask him to accompany them to an elegant penthouse apartment. He meets Walterdonovan, a generous donator to the museum. Walterdonovan is apparently an oil magnate whose drilling team has uncovered fragment of a stone marker dating to the 12th century near Ankara, Turkey. The marker is read by Indyjuniorsallah, and to his surprise it details the cup that holds the blood of Jesuschrist  the Holy Grail, whose waters can grant immortality. Walterdonovan.s project leader has deduced that a second marker, left behind by a knight who had found the Grail, is somewhere in Venice, but a major snag has occurred, as the project leader and all his research have vanished, to the concern of his assistant, Doctor Elsaschneider.  To Indyjuniorsallah's surprise, his father is Walterdonovan.s project leader, and when Indyjuniorsallah and Marcus find Henryjones.s house ransacked and his mail opened, Indyjuniorsallah suddenly remembers the package he got from Venice  his dad's diary, in which is contained all his father's research on the Grail.  Indyjuniorsallah and Marcus fly to Venice, where Walterdonovan has arranged apartments for them, and they meet with Elsaschneider. She gives them a written note by Henryjones.ones that contains only the Roman numerals for three, seven, and ten. The group goes to where Henryjones.ones disappeared, the Venice library, which was once a church in ancient Roman times. A stainedglass window dating from the sacking of Byzantium gives Indyjuniorsallah a clue that the library is the tomb of the knight. Indyjuniorsallah pries open the floor and finds a network of tunnels containing oil. Exploring the tunnel with Elsaschneider  and in the process passing a wall painting of ancient antiquities such as The Ark Of The Covenant  Indyjuniorsallah finds an ancient casket and a knight's shield, the second marker.  However, Marcus is slugged by members of a cult sworn to preventing discovery of the Grail, and who have followed Indyjuniorsallah from the States the cult sets fire to the oil in the tunnels but Indyjuniorsallah and Elsaschneider escape through the city sewers. Indyjuniorsallah and Elsaschneider are pursued by the cultists on speedboats before Indyjuniorsallah dispatches one boat and corners the group's leader,, a member of the Brotherhood of the Cruciform Sword, descendents of soldiers sworn to protect the grail with their lives. Indyjuniorsallah learns from him that his father is a prisoner in the castle Brunewald in Germany.  Later, after drying out, Indyjuniorsallah arranges for Marcus to meet Indyjuniorsallah to begin finding the Grail while he and Elsaschneider go after Henryjones. He finds that his room and Elsaschneider's have been ransacked by men looking for the Grail diary, making him all the more determined to find Henryjones.ones and also the Grail. The two fly to the German castle and Indyjuniorsallah finds Henryjones. but both are double crossed by Elsaschneider, and to both men's horror they find that the stringpuller in this whole affair is Walterdonovan, who wants the ancient cup to give him immortality. Indyjuniorsallah and Henryjones.ones are bound in the castle but Indyjuniorsallah manages to break out, in the process setting off a fire. He and Henryjones.ones commandeer a Nazi motorcycle and escape pursuing German soldiers, but Henryjones.ones stops Indyjuniorsallah's trek of escape to make him go back to Berlin, where Walterdonovan and Elsaschneider have taken his diary for Hitler. When Indyjuniorsallah demands to know why the diary is so important, Henryjones.ones explains that it details traps that protect the grail and keys to defeating them. Indyjuniorsallah also confronts his father about his obsession with the grail and receives a slap from his father when he blasphemes.  Indyjuniorsallah and his father trek to Berlin, finds Elsaschneider standing with Hitler and his highest staff at a Nazi party book burning. Indyjuniorsallah retrieves the diary, in the process tempted to strangle her. During his departure from the rally, Indyjuniorsallah comes facetoface with Hitler himself, who adds his signature to the book.  Indyjuniorsallah and his father got to the Berlin Flughafen to escape. Indyjuniorsallah books tickets aboard a dirigible. However, they are forced to leave the dirigible using the search plane attached underneath. They are chased by Luftwaffe fighters and are forced to land when Indyjuniorsallah's father shoots the tail off their plane with it's machine bun they escape one plane that crashes into a tunnel, then Henryjones.ones suddenly remembers my Charlemegne that drives him to send seagulls flying into the path of the second fighter, which flies into the swarm and crashes.  Reaching the desert area of Jordan, Indyjuniorsallah and Henryjones.ones rendezvous with Indyjuniorsallah's pal Indyjuniorsallah, where they learn that Marcus, whom Indyjuniorsallah had given a map from the diary leading them to the Grail itself, was captured by Nazi agents and taken to Walterdonovan. Tracking down Walterdonovan.s exploration group, Indyjuniorsallah, Henryjones. and Indyjuniorsallah see it is escorted by a company of Nazi troopers with a World War Ivintage tank. When desert guerrillas led by the group that attacked Indyjuniorsallah in Venice ambush the convoy, Henryjones.ones uses the cover to try and rescue Marcus, but both are seized by the Nazis. Indyjuniorsallah pursues the tank and a prolonged fight ensues where Marcus and Henryjones.ones attack the soldiers inside and by a mixture of clumsiness and force succeed in killing them, then use the tank to blast the convoy. Indyjuniorsallah rescues the two of them but the tank drives off a sheer cliff, Indyjuniorsallah barely escaping.  The four men soon track down Walterdonovan.s remaining group at a cliffside temple  in which is the path to the Grail. The traps within have already killed several of Walterdonovan.s group, and when Indyjuniorsallah and his pals are seized, Walterdonovan sees Indyjuniorsallah as his chance. To force Indyjuniorsallah to find the Grail, Walterdonovan shoots Henryjones. leaving the healing power of the Grail as the only chance to save Henryjones.s life. Indyjuniorsallah thus enters the dangerous pathway, deducing how to avoid its traps and finding the chamber of the Grail. He succeeds in reaching the grail chamber and must choose the correct grail from many false ones.  However, Walterdonovan and Elsaschneider enter before he can, and Elsaschneider chooses a cup for Walterdonovan. She knows it is an incorrect choice, and Walterdonovan ultimately ages to death for drinking from the wrong grail. Indyjuniorsallah then picks the true grail, drinks from it proving it to be the true one and is warned by the and uses it to heal Henryjones.s wound. All is settled until Elsaschneider decides to leave with the grail, setting off a mammoth quake inside the vast temple. Elsaschneider hits the ground and the grail rolls into a large fissure in the temple. Elsaschneider almost falls in herself, but is saved by Indyjuniorsallah at the last moment. Elsaschneider, instead of letting Indyjuniorsallah lift her up, pulls one of her hands free to try and reach the grail resting below her. She can almost touch it, and so she keeps on reaching, despite Indyjuniorsallah's pleads to give him both her hands. He cannot maintain his grip on Elsaschneider's slippery leather gloved hand, and before Elsaschneider can grasp the cup, her hand slips out of its leather glove. Elsaschneider falls to her death and Indyjuniorsallah near does too, but his father catches him. Indyjuniorsallah tries to reach the grail himself, but Henryjones.ones gets through to him and the two ultimately escape the temple. When Henryjones Sr. calls Indyjuniorsallah asks what it means. Henryjones Sr. tells him Indyjuniorsallah's full name Henryjones.ones, Jr a moniker that Indyjuniorsallah himself detests. Henryjones Sr also reveals that Indiana was the name of their dog when Indyjuniorsallah was a child. Indyjuniorsallah finds the revelation very funny. Led by a victory cry from the inept Brody, the four then ride off on horseback into the sunset.