Infernal Affairs focuses on a police officer named Chenwingyan , who goes deep undercover into the Triad society, and Triad member Laukinming , who infiltrates the police department. Each mole was planted by the rival organization to gain an advantage in intelligence over the other side. The more the moles become involved in their undercover lives, the more issues they have to cope with.  The Prologue opens with the introduction of Honsam , a Triad boss and the primary antagonist of the film. Honsam is sending a number of young, green gangsters to the police academy as molesamongst them is one called Laukinming . At the same time another person named Chenwingyan  is shown joining the police force. Although he manages to impress the Superintendent Wong ChiShing  and the police academy principal Yip, Chenwingyan is expelled from the academy. In reality Chenwingyan becomes an undercover reporting directly to only Wong and Yip. Chenwingyan.s undercover job becomes stressful while Laukinming quickly climbs the ladder in the police department.  The film begins after Chenwingyan and Laukinming converse at a hifi store where Chenwingyan works, neither of them knowing who the other is. Soon after, Chenwingyan attends a funeral. It is revealed that Yip has recently died and that Superintendent Wong remains as the only person who could identify Chenwingyan as a cop. Later a deal between Honsam and a Thai cocaine dealer is interrupted by Superintendent Wong and his team due to Chenwingyan.s tipoff using Morse Code. However, Laukinming alerted Honsam of the bust with enough time for Honsam to order his minions Tsuiwaikeung  and Delpiero  to dispose of the cocaine so the police would not have any real evidence on the drug deal. Now, both Wong and Honsam realize that they each have a mole within their respective organizations, putting them in a race against time to root out the other mole.  Later, Honsam converses with Laukinming at a cinema with Chenwingyan watching. As Honsam and Laukinming leave, Chenwingyan tries to follow Laukinming. At the crucial moment, Chenwingyan.s phone rings and he is forced to back off, thus losing his chance to capture Laukinming.  At the same time, Chenwingyan and Laukinming are both struggling with their double identities. Chenwingyan is starting to lose faith in himself as a cop after being a gangster for ten years while Laukinming. on the other hand, becomes more and more used to the life of a righteous police officer and wants to erase his criminal background.  Chenwingyan meets SP Wong a second time on the same rooftop unaware that Laukinming has his subordinate, CIB Inspectorb  and his team tracking him down. Honsam. after getting intel from Laukinming. sends Tsuiwaikeung, Delpiero and a gang of henchmen to confront them. Inspectorb informs Laukinming and he sends an OCTB squad to attempt to save Wong. Chenwingyan eventually escapes the building by taking the crane but Wong is caught by Delpiero and is thrown off the roof. As Chenwingyan is about to escape, he witnesses Wong's fall to death, and is stunned. As the police close in, a shootout between the police and Triads breaks out, resulting in the death of 3 Triads, one of whom is Delpiero. In the aftermath of the gunfight, the OCTB squad arrives with Laukinming and Wong's secondincommand Inspector Cheung  on the scene, but they are too late to save Wong. Chenwingyan and Tsuiwaikeung manage to escape from the gunfight. As Tsuiwaikeung drives away with Chenwingyan. he crashes the car, and finding that he is wounded from the gun battle, Tsuiwaikeung dies in Chenwingyan.s arms.  Eventually, Laukinming retrieves Wong's old cellphone and makes contact with Chenwingyan. They reach a deal to foil another one of Honsam.s drug deals. Inspector Cheung does not want to cooperate with the operation at first because of Wong's death, but he is later convinced by Laukinming to go ahead with the operation. With Chenwingyan.s help, Honsam.s drug deal is interrupted and Honsam is killed by Laukinming. Many of Honsam.s other gangsters are arrested. Everything seems to work according to the plan Chenwingyan could now return to his true identity as a police officer and Laukinming has successfully erased his criminal connections by eradicating Honsam and his gangs. However, back at the police station, Chenwingyan discovers Laukinming was the mole, and leaves immediately. Laukinming realizes what has happened, and erases Chenwingyan.s identity from the police computer records. Chenwingyan spends an evening with his therapist Lee , whom he was falling in love with, and sends a compact disc to Laukinming which is inadvertently intercepted by his wife Mary  with a recording that Honsam kept between himself and Laukinming. The two agree to meet on the rooftop of the building where Wong was murdered earlier. Chenwingyan disarms Laukinming without resistance. Chenwingyan holds a gun to Laukinming.s head as rebuke and as reply to Laukinming.s plea for forgiveness to remain a policeman. Inspectorb arrives on the scene shortly afterwards and commands Chenwingyan to release his boss.  The film ends with Chenwingyan entering a lift backwards with Laukinming hostage, when he is suddenly shot in the head and killed by Inspectorb as he moved his head from behind Laukinming. Inspectorb reveals that he was also a mole for Honsam. He asks Laukinming to watch out for him, since their boss is already dead. As he and Laukinming enter the lift going down to the lobby, Laukinming shoots Inspectorb dead, likely out of his desire to eradicate traces of his past and become a good guy police officer.  The original ending climaxes with Laukinming identifying himself to the police as an officer, and paying homage to Chenwingyan at his funeral, where he is buried next to Superintendent Wong. Inspector Cheung and Dr Lee are present as well. A flashback reaffirms the point that Laukinming wished he had taken a different route in his life.  Alternate Ending  The alternate ending has Laukinming exit the lift to be informed by Inspector Cheung that the police force have found evidence that he was a mole. He hands them his badge and is arrested without protest.