Chapter One Once Upon a Time. in NaziOccupied France  The film opens in 1941 with Colonel Hanslandachristophwaltz, a detective of the WaffenSS, proudly known as the Jewhunter, visiting French dairy farmer Perrier LaPadite Denismnochet. After making casual conversation in French and taking a saucer of LaPadite's delicious milk, Hanslandachristophwaltz claims to have exhausted his French and asks to switch to English.  In English, Hanslandachristophwaltz then notes that his papers state that all of the Jewish families around LaPadite's region have been accounted for, except the Dreyfuses, who have vanished completely in the past year. Hanslandachristophwaltz believes that someone is hiding them very well. After rambling on a bit about the logic he uses to hunt Jews, he admits that he is required to conduct a thorough search of LaPadite's house.  By dropping a subtle hint about whether or not to leave LaPadite's family alone in the future, Hanslandachristophwaltz manages to coerce LaPadite and get him to confess that he is hiding the Dreyfuses under the floorboards. LaPadite points out the approximate location of the hidden Dreyfuses. Hanslandachristophwaltz understands that the Dreyfuses don't speak English, and tells LaPadite that he will be switching back to French. In French, he thanks LaPadite for the milk and hospitality, then opens the door, seemingly calling out to LaPadite's family, but in actuality to booted Wehrmacht soldiers, who come inside and take up positions. On Hanslandachristophwaltz's orders, the soldiers fire their guns into the floorboards, killing the Dreyfuses. However, Hanslandachristophwaltz hears a noise, and sees the teenage Shosannamlanielaurent running away into the hills. Hanslandachristophwaltz considers shooting her with his pistol but decides against it, yelling after her, Au revoir, Shosanna   Chapter Two Inglourious Basterds  The second chapter takes place three years later in 1944, just prior to the Allied invasion of France. We see redneck Lt. Aldorainebradpitt addressing in formation his newly formed eightman JewishAmerican commando unit. He proceeds to explain to them, in drill sergeant style, that they will be dropped behind enemy lines to cause havoc to all Nazi soldiers they come across with the goal of bringing fear into the heart of the enemy. He further explains to them that the normal standards of military conduct will not apply because the Nazis themselves have no humanity and are not deserving of any humanity in return. He mentions that he has Apache blood running through his veins and that each and every one of the men in his command owes him a debt of 100 Nazi scalps.  We next cut to a scene showing us the terribletempered Adolfhitlermartinwuttke, angrily ridiculing two of his military command for not being able to deal with the Basterds, as their activities are demoralizing to his fighting men. Adolfhitlermartinwuttke then interviews Private Butzsnkemhring, whose entire patrol was recently ambushed and killed by the Basterds, and he was the only survivor. When Adolfhitlermartinwuttke asks Butz if they marked him like they did the other survivors, Butz shows him the swastika carved into his forehead.  Butz's story is told in flashback all of the soldiers have already been killed except for three Butz, Sgt. Wernerrachtmanrichardsammel, and a third soldier. Aldorainebradpitt has Wernerrachtmanrichardsammel come forward, and threatens to have him killed if he does not disclose the whereabouts and information on a nearby Nazi patrol. Wernerrachtmanrichardsammel is adamant that he will not provide information that could possibly harm other German soldiers and Aldorainebradpitt calls for Sgt. Donnydonowitzeliroth, known to German soldiers as the Bear Jew to beat Wernerrachtmanrichardsammel to death with a baseball bat, which he proceeds to do, which very much delights all of the Basterds. The second survivor is also shot dead in a moment of excitement.  Aldorainebradpitt then interrogates the nonEnglish speaking Private Butz. Cpl. Willemwickigedeonburkhard acts as their interpreter. Utterly demoralized by the beating death of his sergeant, Private Butz quickly provides the Basterds with all they need to know after which Lt. Aldorainebradpitt lets Private Butz go  but not before carving a swastika into Butz's forehead with his own customized Bowie knife  as a branding . The scene ends with Donnydonowitzeliroth commenting to Aldorainebradpitt that he is becoming quite good at carving swastikas. Lt. Aldorainebradpitt responds You know how you get to Carnegie Hall don't ya Practice.   Chapter Three German Night in Paris  June 1, 1944 Shosanna has assumed the identity of Emmanuellemimieux. How she manages to do so is not revealed. She has also become the proprietress of a cinema in downtown Paris, which is chosen by Fredrickzollerdanielbrhl, a spotlighthungry sniperturnedactor whose exploits are being celebrated in the Nazi propaganda film  Stolz der Nation Nation's Pride, as the setting for the film premiere. He is infatuated with Shosanna and convinces Josephgoebbelssylvestergroth to hold the premiere in her cinema. Shosanna, however, does not reciprocate Fredrickzollerdanielbrhl's feelings.  Shosanna realizes that the presence of so many high ranking Nazi officials and officers provides an excellent opportunity for revenge. She resolves to burn down the cinema using the massive quantities of flammable nitrate film she holds in storage during the premiere Samuell. Jackson tells us that the flammability of nitrate film was such so that you couldn't even take a reel on a streetcar, and she and her loverassistant Marcel reedit the fourth reel of Stolz der Nation.   Chapter Four Operation Kino  In the meantime, the British have also learned of the Nazi leadership's plan to attend the premiere and dispatch a British officer, Lt. Archiehicoxmichaelfassbender, to Paris to lead  Operation Kino, an attack on the cinema with the aid of the Basterds and a German double agent, an actress by the name of Bridgetvonhammersmarkdianekruger. Hicox meets with General Edfenechmikemyers and Winstonchurchillrodtaylor and is chosen for the mission based on his expertise of German filmmakers.  Bridgetvonhammersmark Bridgetvonhammersmark arranges to meet Hicox and two of the Basterds, Wicki and the psychotic Hugostigliztilschweiger  in the basement of a French tavern to arrange their plans. The only problem is that the night of the rendezvous is also the occasion of a German staff sergeant named Wilhelmalexanderfehling.lexanderfehling celebrating the birth of his son with his soldier comrades. One of the German soldiers present strikes up a conversation with Hicox and notices that his accent is odd. An SS Major, Dieterhellstromaugustdiehl , who is in the tavern as well also notices the odd accent . Dieterhellstromaugustdiehl joins Hicox and Bridgetvonhammersmark and plays one round of a guessing game with them . He offers to buy the table a round of drinks. Unfortunately, Hicox betrays himself when he gives the wrong threefingered order for whiskey , and the SS officer recognizes their deception.  Hicox, Wicki, Stiglitz, and all of the Germans, as well as the French tavern owner, subsequently kill each other in the resulting 15 second shootout Stiglitz starts things off by telling Dieterhellstromaugustdiehl to say Aufwiedersehen to his Nazi balls, then shoots him in his groin. Dieterhellstromaugustdiehl then shoots Hicox in turn and hits Bridgetvonhammersmark in her right leg, who falls backward in her chair, while Hicox falls backward and returns fire at Dieterhellstromaugustdiehl. Stiglitz then stands up and repeatedly stabs Dieterhellstromaugustdiehl in the back of the head, pinning his head to the table. Wicki stands up and shoots Winnetou in the back at least twice. Beethoven shoots Stiglitz in the back. Matahari shoots Wicki in the stomach. Stiglitz turns and shoots Beethoven four times in the torso and then also shoots Edgarwallace in the heart, killing them both. Wicki shoots Matahari in the heart. Then, Eric shoots Stiglitz with a doublebarreled shotgun, killing him. Wicki shoots Eric in the head. Wilhelmalexanderfehling.lexanderfehling blindly guns down Wicki and Mathilda with his MP40 submachine gun. Just then, Aldorainebradpitt and several of the Basterds arrive , and a standoff ensures between them and Wilhelmalexanderfehling. After Wilhelmalexanderfehling.lexanderfehling agrees to surrender to the Basterds, Bridgetvonhammersmark retrieves Hicox's pistol and fires four shots at Wilhelmalexanderfehling. killing him, because Wilhelmalexanderfehling.lexanderfehling had learned that Bridgetvonhammersmark was working for the enemy. The wounded Bridgetvonhammersmark allows herself to be captured by Aldorainebradpitt and the Basterds.  A little later, Aldorainebradpitt angrily interrogates Bridgetvonhammersmark at a local animal clinic where he takes her for medical treatment for her bullet wound. He pokes a finger into the wound to make her explain the debacle in the tavern, and then tell him about Operation Kino. Aldorainebradpitt decides to continue the operation against the cinema. Aldorainebradpitt picks two of his best men, Donnydonowitzeliroth and Omarulmeromardoom, to make use of suicide bombs and the three of them will pose as Italian filmmakers escorting Bridgetvonhammersmark to the event. To explain the cast on her leg, Bridgetvonhammersmark will claim to have broken it in a mountainclimbing accident.  Colonel Hanslandachristophwaltz, who is now an SD officer, investigates the carnage at the French pub and finds one of Bridgetvonhammersmark Bridgetvonhammersmark's shoes left behind and also an autographed napkin which Bridgetvonhammersmark had signed for Wilhelmalexanderfehling.s son, realizing that she was there and may have been wounded. He also identifies the bodies of the two Germanborn Basterds, noting their reputation to disguise themselves as German soldiers to ambush squads.   Chapter Five Revenge of the Giant Face  The following evening, Hanslandachristophwaltz approaches Bridgetvonhammersmark and Aldorainebradpitt in the cinema lobby and is able to easily see through their disguises, as Aldorainebradpitt. Donnydonowitzeliroth, and Omarulmer cannot speak fluent Italian or German . He questions Bridgetvonhammersmark alone and makes her try on the shoe he had retrieved from the tavern. It is a perfect fit. He strangles and kills her as a traitor, and orders the arrest of Aldorainebradpitt. As Aldorainebradpitt is driven off in a truck, he discovers one of his men, Private Utivich B.J. Novak, has also been captured and is in the truck with him.  Hanslandachristophwaltz reveals himself to be a turncoat. While speaking with Aldorainebradpitt and Utivich in the privacy of a closed restaurant, he tells them that four major Nazi leaders must all be killed to end the terrible war immediately. They are all attending  Nation's Pride, and he is prepared to let the assassination continue. for a price. He has no intention of helping end the war only to be tried by a Jewish tribunal for war crimes and end up facing execution. In order to help end the war, he wants to make a deal one Aldorainebradpitt cannot authorize, but his commanding officer Harveykeitel can. Hanslandachristophwaltz has his radio operator help Aldorainebradpitt reach his general, where Hanslandachristophwaltz states the terms of his deal he wants full military pension and benefits under his current rank, the Congressional Medal of Honor for everyone involved in the operation, American citizenship and a home on Nantucket Island. He also reveals that he had planted Aldorainebradpitt.s explosives in Adolfhitlermartinwuttke's box at the cinema , indicating that there are now three attempts against Adolfhitlermartinwuttke's life . Aldorainebradpitt is placed on the radio and his general tells him that Hanslandachristophwaltz and his radio operator will drive him and Utivich in a truck to American lines, then surrender to them, whereupon Aldorainebradpitt will drive the truck the rest of the way to base and bring Hanslandachristophwaltz and the operator to him for debriefing.  Meanwhile, during the showing of  Nation's Pride, Shosanna and her assistant  Marceljackyido are manning the projection booth when he tells her it is time. It is revealed in a flashback to a few days ago which shows Marcel filming a closeup of Shosanna's face making a speech in English. They then force a local camera shop owner to develop the film by threatening to kill him and his family if he doesn't, and Shosanna edits the complete film on the fourth and final film reel of the movie and leaves them in the projection booth for them to run when the time is right.  Flashing back to the present, Marcel tells Shosanna that he needs to lock the auditorium and go behind the screen. As Marcel makes his way toward the auditorium, the two Basterds that have been left behind, Donnydonowitzeliroth and Omarulmer, leave their seats and exit the auditorium heading upstairs to the balcony level. determined to kill Adolfhitlermartinwuttke by themselves . Donnydonowitzeliroth carefully spies on the two guards watching the entrance to Adolfhitlermartinwuttke's opera box from the nearest restroom.  Shosanna loads the doctored fourth reel of  Nation's Pride onto the projector camera as Marcel locks the auditorium doors, sliding the safety locks at the tops and bottoms of the doors into place, and then slides a heavy iron crowbar through the door handles, further barring them. He steps behind the screen where Shosanna had placed her entire stack of flammable nitrate film. Shosanna pulls a lever to switch the projector to the doctored reel on a cue symbol in the film. Watching from behind the screen, Marcel lights up a cigarette and waits.  Meanwhile, Fredrickzollerdanielbrhl, who is uncomfortable with the way he is portrayed killing Americans in the film, leaves the cinema auditorium and makes his way to the projectionist's room to flirt with Shosanna. She is deeply concerned at his intrusion and tells him to leave. However, the spurned Fredrickzollerdanielbrhl pushes his way into the room and angrily confronts Shosanna about her treatment of him, warning her that she's no longer in a position to disrespect him. Needing to get Fredrickzollerdanielbrhl out of the way, she asks him to lock the door, dropping a subtle hint we don't have much time. Soon as Fredrickzollerdanielbrhl's back is turned to her, she pulls out a small gun from her purse and shoots him in the back, mortally wounding him. Quickly she glances into the auditorium to make sure she wasn't heard. Suddenly, she hears Fredrickzollerdanielbrhl groan and realizes he's still alive. In an apparent moment of pity, she turns him over, and he shoots her to death before he succumbs to his wounds.  At the same time, Donnydonowitzeliroth and Omarulmer are preparing their ambush to take out the opera box guards. Donnydonowitzeliroth disguises himself as a waiter delivering a glass of champagne. The ambush goes off without a hitch and they kill both guards and then steal their machine guns.  Meanwhile, we see Adolfhitlermartinwuttke greatly enjoying the battle scene in the movie, where Fredrickzollerdanielbrhl is taking out numerous American soldiers by himself. But his joy comes to a quick end when Fredrickzollerdanielbrhl's challenge in the movie  is answered with the changes Shosanna made to the fourth reel. The large image of Shosanna's face appears on the screen and she tells the audience  that they're all going to die, and she is a Jew ready to take revenge. On her cue, Marcel flicks his cigarette into the pile of nitrate film behind the screen, igniting it. The fire bursts through the screen, causing pandemonium in the auditorium. Just then, Donnydonowitzeliroth and Omarulmer burst into Adolfhitlermartinwuttke's box and gun down Adolfhitlermartinwuttke, Josephgoebbelssylvestergroth, Josephgoebbelssylvestergroth secretary and French translator Francescamondinojuliedreyfus and the other Nazi leaders. As the cinema is engulfed in flames, Donnydonowitzeliroth and Omarulmer fire randomly into the crowd below them, who are attempting to flee, but escape is impossible, as the auditorium doors are now locked and barred. Finally, the dynamite that Hanslandachristophwaltz had planted in Adolfhitlermartinwuttke's box, as well as the dynamite strapped to the Basterds' legs, now goes off. The cinema is destroyed in the subsequent inferno, killing everybody inside.  The next day, Hanslandachristophwaltz and his radio operator set off with Aldorainebradpitt and Utivich towards the American lines in Normandy, as part of the deal he had made with Aldorainebradpitt.s commanding officer. At the American lines, he surrenders to Aldorainebradpitt and hands over his gun and sword. Aldorainebradpitt orders Utivich to handcuff Hanslandachristophwaltz, and suddenly shoots the driver dead, ordering Utivich to scalp him over Hanslandachristophwaltz's outraged protest. Aldorainebradpitt reveals that while he appreciates Hanslandachristophwaltz's underhanded deal and all the perks he's secured for himself, he is incensed that on arriving in America, Hanslandachristophwaltz intended to take off his SS uniform and blend in to the American populace, with nobody remembering all the heinous deeds he committed as a Nazi officer. Aldorainebradpitt plans to remedy that. The film ends with Aldorainebradpitt carving a swastika into Hanslandachristophwaltz's forehead and declaring to Utivich that it may just be his masterpiece.