Story of Gerryconlon, purported ringleader of the Guildford Four, a group of three Irishmen and one English woman wrongly imprisoned for the 1974 IRA bombing of a pub in Guildford, England, that left five people dead. Gerryconlon's father Guiseppe was subsequently imprisoned along with six other Gerryconlon relatives who became known as the Maguire Seven.    The story opens with a flashforward to the bombing of a pub in the Guildford suburb of London. The pub, frequented by British soldiers, was targeted by the Irish Republican Army  as an act of terrorism.  A woman driving a car listens to a cassette recording of Gerryconlon, a Northern Irish political prisoner. Gerryconlon speaks of his younger years living in Belfast where he'd steal lead sheets from the roofs of row houses amp sell them. One day, while holding a piece of piping, he's shot at by British soldiers who mistake him for a sniper, believing the pipe is a rifle. Gerryconlon runs into the streets and through several homes while being chased. He inadvertently starts a small riot and joins the mob throwing rocks and Molotov cocktails. Members of the IRA, who'd been using one of the houses Gerryconlon runs through as a munitions cache, find Gerryconlon and threaten to shoot him in the leg. Gerryconlon's father, Giuseppeampgerry, told by his daughters that their brother is in trouble, rushes to the scene and talks to the IRA leader, who tells Giuseppeampgerry that they are just trying to scare Gerryconlon into behaving. Giuseppeampgerry decides to send Gerryconlon by boat to London in the hopes that he'll find work amp avoid the Troubles in Belfast.  On the boat to London, Gerryconlon meets his friend Paulhill. The two arrive in London amp go immediately to a squatter's house where their friend Patrickarmstrong lives with a small group of hippies. Gerryconlon and Paulhill also visit the home of his aunt, Anniemaguire. Gerryconlon and Paulhill seem to enjoy their time in London until one day one of Patrickarmstrong's British friends, Jim, acts hostile toward them amp they decide to leave the squat. They wander through London, finally settling on a bench in a park where they're accosted by a homeless man, Paulmetcharlieburke, who's carved his initials into the bench. Paulmetcharlieburke is Irish and they talk for a time. Paulhill and Gerryconlon continue to walk through London until they pass the house of a prostitute. She refuses to talk to them when they try to return the wallet she drops. Gerryconlon walks into her unlocked apartment and finds a stash of money in her bedroom. Gerryconlon takes the money and the two spend the night in a hotel.  In Guilford, the bomb goes off in the soldier's pub, killing five people, four of whom are in the military. The British police begin to hunt for suspects. Not long before, legislation, the Prevention of Terrorism Act, is passed in Parliament that allows the British police to hold potential suspects for seven days before they are formally charged.  Gerryconlon returns to Belfast and rejoins his family. In London, Jim, who'd been hostile to Gerryconlon and Paulhill talks to the police and identifies the two as troublemakers. Paulhill, who'd remained in London, is arrested amp Gerryconlon recognizes him on TV by his shoes. A few days later the Brits invade the Gerryconlon home and arrest Gerryconlon, taking him back to London. Gerryconlon is held without formal charges and is tortured and interrogated, being kept awake for seven days straight. He is beaten severely and forced to look at the forensic photos of the victims. His interrogators also tell him that his aunt Anniemaguire is being charged as well with bombmaking, operating out of her home. Eventually, Paulhill is brought to Gerryconlon, having confessed himself, and he tells Gerryconlon to do the same. Gerryconlon still refuses to cooperate until one of the policemen threatens to kill his father. Gerryconlon relents and signs his name to a false statement of confession to the bombings.  Gerryconlon and Paulhill, Paddyarmstrong and their friend Carolerichardson, known collectively as the Guildford Four, are charged with the bombings. While in a processing facility awaiting trial, Gerryconlon's father is also brought in, accused of being part of the bombmaking conspiracy involving Anniemaguire. Giuseppeampgerry talks to Gerryconlon, who feels that his rough relationship with his father turned him to thievery and that he was destined to get into trouble like this. Gerryconlon has a minor, brief breakdown but his father is able to calm him.  The trial begins under heavy security. The prosecution contends that Gerryconlon, Paulhill, Patrickarmstrong and Carolerichardson committed the bombings, however solid evidence is lacking and they only have the confessions made by the accused, which the police commissioner, Dickson, claims were not obtained under duress. Anniemaguire amp her family are accused of bombmaking, a group that includes her youngest son, who was also beaten into confessing. On the witness stand, Gerryconlon admits that he robbed the hooker's home and that he amp Paulhill met Paulmetcharlieburke in the park. The prosecution claims no knowledge of Paulmetcharlieburke's existence.  The trial ends with the Guilford Four being found guilty. All are given lengthy sentences, Gerryconlon's is a minimum of 30 years. The judge makes a point of stating that he'd give Gerryconlon the death penalty for treason if Gerryconlon had been so accused. Giuseppeampgerry is also sentenced to 15 years for smuggling explosives to Anniemaguire. Gerryconlon himself develops an intense hatred for lawyers.  In voiceover we hear Gerryconlon speaking on the tapes that he's made up for an attorney named Garethpeirce. She goes to the park where Paulhill and Gerryconlon met Paulmetcharlieburke amp even finds his name carved into the bench.  Giuseppeampgerry are sent to Park Royal, a maximum security prison. Barker, the prison's warder, makes Gerryconlon amp his father wear blue outfits with yellow stripes, branding them as the worst criminal population. The prison is mostly inhabited by English convicts and any Irish prisoners are ostracized and persecuted. Gerryconlon falls in with a small group of Jamaicans who have a large supply of LSD disguised as a jigsaw puzzle. Gerryconlon spends time getting stoned with them but his father disapproves. Gerryconlon promises to stay off the drugs, even after Giuseppeampgerry dies.  Gerryconlon meets another Irish convict named Joemcandrews. Joemcandrews reveals that he and his people were responsible for the Guilford Pub bombings and for smuggling the explosives used in the attack. McAndrews informs the police that they're holding innocent people for the crime but British police still refuse to let them out. McAndrews is shunned and persecuted like every other Irish prisoner, even starting a fight with the minions of a hulking Brit named Ronniesmalls. McAndrews threatens to kill Ronniesmalls' family since he knows their address. Ronniesmalls backs off. McAndrews and Gerryconlon also stage a protest to call attention to the Conlons' innocence, seizing control of the cellblock for a brief period until Barker sends in a riot squad to retake the prison by violent force. After the seizure is quelled, during a screening of The Godfather for the prison population, McAndrews sprays Barker with lighter fluid and sets him aflame. Gerryconlon, shocked by the horror of McAndrews' violent methods, separates himself from his fellow countryman. McAndrews is remanded to a different prison.  Garethpeirce becomes the Conlons' attorney through Gerryconlon's mother's influence. Gerryconlon instantly dislikes Garethpeirce but is gradually convinced she means to help him and his father. A campaign to prove the innocence of the Conlons amp the Guildford Four and the Maguire Seven begins to gain popularity. Giuseppeampgerry, despite increasingly debilitating respiratory problems, manages some of the campaign from his and Gerryconlon's cell. After the burning of Barker, Gerryconlon tells his father he'll help with the campaign. Garethpeirce gives Gerryconlon a tape recorder and tells him to recount every detail of his life.  One night Gerryconlon notices his father has stopped breathing. He's able to revive Giuseppeampgerry long enough to have him transported out of the prison for medical care, however, Gerryconlon is not permitted to accompany his father. A priest later visits Gerryconlon to tell him that his father died.  Gerryconlon continues to meet with Garethpeirce, developing a tremendous amount of trust for her. He continues Giuseppeampgerry's campaign work in earnest. The British government tries to transfer him to a Scottish prison to prevent him from working the campaign and meeting with Garethpeirce but the effort fails.  Garethpeirce reviews the judiciary files of the Conlons court case. She's only allowed to view Giuseppeampgerry's files on the orders of Dickson. One day she visits the court archives and inadvertently passes a nasty cold on to the court clerk. A few days later she visits the archives again and finds a man substituting for the clerk. The man behind the counter asks Garethpeirce if she wants the files for either Giuseppeampgerry or Gerryconlon. Garethpeirce seizes the opportunity to view Gerryconlon's files and finds a folder containing the statement made by Paulmetcharlieburke that could vindicate Gerryconlon himself. Attached to the statement is a handwritten note from Dickson himself that reads Not to be shown to the defence. Garethpeirce steals the file and begins to build a new case and trial for Gerryconlon and the members of the Guilford Four.  The Four are brought back to London. Garethpeirce leads their defense and, following an impassioned recounting of the sentences handed down to the Four and Anniemaguire's family, presents Paulmetcharlieburke's statement to the court. She accuses Dickson openly of destroying the lives of the defendants and of their complicity in the death of Giuseppeconlon. The judge calls for order and reviews the evidence and declares that the Four are innocent and free to go. However, the judge refuses to charge Dickson or his accomplices with any misconduct and also does not declare the late Giuseppeampgerry innocent. Gerryconlon and Paulhill refuse to be escorted from the building by the bailiffs. Gerryconlon, standing with his family, makes a statement to the media in front of the court building saying he'll carry on the campaign to clear his father's name.