This movie is about a divine intervention by a guardian angel, to help a man in distress. It opens with a a fanciful depiction of angels in heaven discussing a problem that has come up. They are receiving prayers from mortals, like Please, God, something's the matter with Daddy. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey James Stewart is about to kill himself, and they need to send an angel down to Earth to stop him. They select Clarenceodbody.enrytravers, a somewhat downonhisluck angel who hasn't earned his wings yet, but who they decide is right for the job. The senior angels promise that Clarenceodbody.dbody will get his wings if he succeeds. The bulk of the movie is a replaying, by the senior angels and for Clarenceodbody.s benefit, of Georgebaileyjamesstewart.s life, so that Clarenceodbody.dbody will understand Georgebaileyjamesstewart.  Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey was a young man, living in a small town, but with big dreams. From an early age, he wanted to get away from Bedford Falls, travel the world, and accomplish big thingsplanning cities and building huge airfields, skyscrapers, and bridges. The first incident that Clarenceodbody.dbody sees is that, at age 12, Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey saved his younger brother Harrybailey.s Toddkarns life in an accident while playing on an icecovered pond. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey lost the hearing in his left ear due to being in the icy water. Shortly after that, while working parttime in Mr. Gower's H.B. Warner drug store, he prevents a mistake in a prescription from fatally poisoning someone. The two little girls in Georgebaileyjamesstewart.s life at that point are Maryhatchdonnareed.atchdonnareed and Violetbick Gloria Grahame, who seem to be competing for his notice.  Georgebaileyjamesstewart.s father Samuels. Hinds, with a small staff including Uncle Billythomasmitchell, run a small Building and Loan company that finances mortgages for the people of Bedford Falls. They face a difficult battle with the evil, avaricious, and wealthy Henrypotterlionelbarrymore. Henrypotterlionelbarrymore is on the board of directors of the Building and Loan, holds much of its assets, along with almost everything else in town, charges people exorbitant rent on his own apartments, and would like to put Harrybailey's company out of business.  Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey wants to begin his adventures after going to college. While he has enormous respect for his father and what he is doing to help people, he definitely does not want to follow in his father's footsteps at the Building and Loan. But one thing after another thwarts his plans.  Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey went to work at the Building and Loan for a few years after graduating from high school, with the expectation that Harrybailey.ailey would take this over when he graduated, and Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey would go on a European tour and then go to college. But his father has a fatal stroke, and Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey has to take over the BampL for a few months, giving up the European tour. Then Henrypotterlionelbarrymore attempts to liquidate the BampL, the only thing that can stop it is for Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey himself to take it over. So he gives up college, and gives his college money to Harrybailey. The plan at that point was that, after Harrybailey.ailey graduates, he will take over the BampL, and Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey will go to college. But Harrybailey.ailey returns from college having married Ruthdakin, and Ruthdakin's father has offered him a job in upstate New York. So Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey has no choice but to stay with the BampL.  Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey marries Maryhatchdonnareed.atch after a difficult introductionhe mistakenly thinks Maryhatchdonnareed.atch is in love with his lifelong rival Samwainwrightfrankalbertson. They are about to go on their honeymoon with 2000 they have saved up. But a banking crisis occurs. Henrypotterlionelbarrymore has taken over the bank that guarantees the BampL's loans, and has called in the loans. The customers are in a panic and are tempted to go over to Henrypotterlionelbarrymore's bank. The only way Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey can save the situation is to provide for the customers' needs out of his honeymoon money. Their friends Erniefrankfaylen the cabbie and Bertwardbond the policeman arrange for them to have a cutrate honeymoon at their house. They serenade the newlyweds from outside in the rain.  The BampL continues to provide affordable housing for the people of Bedford Falls, creating a whole subdivision Harrybailey Park. This includes the home of Mr. Martiniwilliamedmunds, the local tavernkeeper, and his family. Samwainwrightfrankalbertson and his wife come by to offer that Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey and Maryhatchdonnareed.atch take a vacation with them in Florida, but they can't get away even for that.  Henrypotterlionelbarrymore is disturbed that Georgebaileyjamesstewart.s BampL is taking customers away from his own apartment business, and attempts to bribe Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey into working for him instead, offering a huge salary and extensive travel. Tempting as that is, Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey is repelled by everything Henrypotterlionelbarrymore stands for, and declines.  So Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey stays with his wife and four children in Bedford Falls, never getting to leave. World War II comes and goes, and Harrybailey.ailey serves  and heroically saves an entire transport ship by shooting down two attacking airplanes. He is awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor at a ceremony in Washington.  On the morning before Christmas, the day that Bedford Falls will have a huge celebration for Harrybailey. a bank examiner arrives to conduct a routine audit. The same day, Uncle Billy goes to the bank for a routine deposit of 8,000 in cash. Henrypotterlionelbarrymore happens by, and Billy proudly points out the newspaper with the news about Harrybailey. He accidentally folds the newspaper with the cash envelope in it, and Henrypotterlionelbarrymore takes it back. Billy then realizes that he has lost the money. Henrypotterlionelbarrymore, now in another room, sees this, and leaves quietly.  Billy arrives at the BampL, where Georgebaileyjamesstewart. generous as always, is giving Violet some of his own money for her to travel to New York City and start a new life. When Billy tells Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey about the loss, there is an uproar. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey and Billy search everywhere that the money could possibly have been left. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey shouts at Billy that this means bankruptcy, scandal and prison, and that he, Georgebaileyjamesstewart. isn't the one who will go to prison.  Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey goes home in an incredibly foul mood, where his family are preparing for a Christmas party that evening. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey is extremely bitter and nasty, and verbally abuses everyone, saying at one point Why do we have to have all these kids The whole family are alarmed at his behavior. He learns that their youngest daughter Zuzukarolyngrimes.arolyngrimes is in bed with a cold. She apparently caught it walking home from school, having not buttoned her coat because she didn't want to harm a rose that she had been given. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey goes up to see her. While handling the rose, some petals fall off. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey puts them in his watch pocket.  Zuzukarolyngrimes.s teacher, Mrs. Welch, phones to ask about Zuzukarolyngrimes. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey gives her a brutal tonguelashing over her carelessness. When Mr. Welch gets on the line, Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey abuses and threatens him. Then Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey starts kicking and throwing things. The children are in tears. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey storms out of the house. Maryhatchdonnareed.atch phones Uncle Billy to find out what's wrong. The children ask whether they should pray for their father, and Maryhatchdonnareed.atch says yes.  While word spreads of the calamity, Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey goes to see Mr. Henrypotterlionelbarrymore to beg for a loan of 8000 dollars. Mr. Henrypotterlionelbarrymore is completely unsympathetic and sarcastic. He suggests that Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey has been cooking the books, playing the market with company money, or perhaps paying off a woman, pointing out that he is known to have been giving money to Violetbick. Henrypotterlionelbarrymore asks about collateral. All Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey has is a fifteen thousand dollar life insurance policy, but with only five hundred dollars equity. Mr. Henrypotterlionelbarrymore says You're worth more dead than alive.  Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey goes to Mr. Martiniwilliamedmunds's tavern and starts drinking, and then praying for divine guidance. His friends notice and try to help. Mr. Martiniwilliamedmunds mentions his name out loud, and Mr. Welch, sitting nearby, hears it. He punches Georgebaileyjamesstewart. causing a bloody lip. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey leaves, though his friends urge him to stay and rest. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey drives his car toward a bridge. Because of the snowy weather, he accidentally drives it into a tree. The homeowner comes out and chews him out for harming the tree. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey just keeps walking, out onto the bridge, to kill himself.  Just as Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey is about to jump into the frigid river and drown, Clarenceodbody.dbody comes down to Earth his moment has come. He knows Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey well enough to know that if he, Clarenceodbody. jumps into the river, Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey will rescue him. He does so, and Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey jumps in and rescues him as predicted. They go to the tolltaker's shack to dry their clothes. Clarenceodbody.dbody explains allthat he is an angel, Clarenceodbody.dbody, Angel second class, sent to save Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey from committing suicide. To Georgebaileyjamesstewart.s astonishment, Clarenceodbody.dbody knows the whole story of his life. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey is disbelieving and cynical about the whole thing, mentioning that it is not surprising that he got only a secondclass angel, one without wings. He resists Clarenceodbody.s entreaties, believing that he must have consumed tainted liquor. He finally says I wish I'd never been born. Clarenceodbody.dbody formulates his plan, and, after a little prayerful communication with the senior angels, says You've got your wish. You've never been born.  Things change immediately. In the alternate universe it isn't snowing. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey notices that he can hear through his left ear, and his lip isn't bleeding. Clarenceodbody.dbody points out that many things will be different now.  As Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey and Clarenceodbody.dbody walk back toward town, they walk past the tree that Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey had hit with his car. The car is gone, and there is no gash in the tree. The homeowner stops by, and Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey asks about the car and the damage to the tree. The homeowner knows nothing about this. He says You had me worried. One of the oldest trees in Pottersville. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey is confused, and tries to correct the man, but the man angrily tells Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey that the town is called Pottersville. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey and Clarenceodbody.dbody walk off.  They continue into town. Martiniwilliamedmunds's tavern has become a sleazy dive, and Mr. Martiniwilliamedmunds is nowhere to be found. It is now owned by Nick, who had worked there in real life. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey and Clarenceodbody.dbody sit down at the bar. Clarenceodbody.s polite speech and demeanor immediately displease Nick, who is an unpleasant fellow. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey knows Nick, but Nick does not know Georgebaileyjamesstewart. When a cash register rings, Clarenceodbody.dbody points out that, whenever that happens, it means an angel has earned his wings. An elderly Mr. Gower comes in. dressed like a homeless derelict and Nick tells him to leave. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey speaks to Mr. Gower, but Mr. Gower doesn't recognize him. When Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey asks about the guy, Nick says that Mr. Gower spent 20 years in prison for poisoning some child, and that if this stranger knows Mr. Gower, he must be a convict also. Nick has Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey and Clarenceodbody.dbody thrown out of the tavern, and then derisively makes the cash register ring, saying that he is giving out angel wings.  In front of the tavern, Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey is seriously disturbed by what is going on. Clarenceodbody.dbody explains once again that Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey doesn't exist. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey checks his pockets for his wallet, other identification, or his life insurance policy. Clarenceodbody.dbody points out that they do not exist. Finally, Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey checks his watch pocket. Clarenceodbody.dbody says They're not there either. What Zuzukarolyngrimes.s petals. You've been given a great gift, Georgebaileyjamesstewart. The chance to see what the world would be like without you.  Continuing to be in denial of what is going on, Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey continues to walk downtown without Clarenceodbody. Bedford Falls has become Pottersville, and it is a dreary, brutish, and perverse place, full of bars and sleazy nightclubs. The movie theater, the Emporium department store, and the BampL, are long gone. Police are everywhere, dealing with disorders. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey sees the police arrest Violet and take her away from a brothel. He hails Ernie's cab and asks to be taken home. Ernie has no idea who he is or where he lives. He gives Ernie the address, and Ernie tells him that that is an abandoned house, but he will take him there anyway. When Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey asks Ernie about his life, Ernie tells Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey that his wife left him three years ago, and that he now lives alone in a place called Henrypotterlionelbarrymore's Field. He visually signals for Bertwardbond the policeman to follow them. As Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey searches the house calling out for his family, Clarenceodbody.dbody appears. Bertwardbond attempts to arrest them, but Clarenceodbody.dbody vanishes, allowing Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey to escape.  Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey then goes to his mother's house, which has become a brokendown boarding house called 'Ma Harrybailey's Boarding House. She opens the front door, but she does not recognize him and tells him to leave. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey mentions Uncle Billy, and she says that he has been in a mental hospital for many years since the BampL went out of business.  Still in denial of what is happening, Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey then goes with Clarenceodbody.dbody to Martiniwilliamedmunds's house in Harrybailey Park. There is no such placeit is a wasteland with a cemetery. Clarenceodbody.dbody points out the grave of Harrybailey.ailey. Clarenceodbody.dbody says Your brother Harrybailey.ailey broke through the ice and was drowned at the age of nine.  That's a lie Harrybailey.ailey went to war. He got the Congressional Medal of Honor. He saved the lives of every man on that transport. says Georgebaileyjamesstewart.  Every man on that transport died. Harrybailey.ailey wasn't there to save them, because you weren't there to save Harrybailey. You see, Georgebaileyjamesstewart. you really had a wonderful life. Don't you see what a mistake it would be to throw it away  Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey then asks to see Maryhatchdonnareed. Clarenceodbody.dbody says that she never married, and works at the library. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey goes there. She doesn't recognize him. He tries to embrace her she screams and runs into a nightclub. He runs after her. The police intervene. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey slugs Bertwardbond and runs away. Bertwardbond shoots at him but misses, then pursues in his squad car.  Finally aware of what is happening, Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey runs to the bridge where he had been about to jump, and calls out Help me Clarenceodbody. please Please I want to live again  The alternate universe suddenly ends. It's snowing once again. Bertwardbond arrives in his police car, and calls out to Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey that he's been looking for him, since seeing his car plowed into the tree. He also points out that Georgebaileyjamesstewart.s lip is bleeding. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey is delighted to hear this, and to know that Bertwardbond knows him. He checks his watch pocket the rose petals are there.  Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey is ecstatic. He runs into town, which is once again Bedford Falls, and has all its familiar institutions. He goes home, knowing that he will likely be arrested for bank fraud. The officials are there, ready to arrest him. But his children are there also, and all have a joyful reunion. Maryhatchdonnareed.atch comes home, along with many people led by Uncle Billy. When word got around that Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey was in financial trouble, the townspeople that he had been so generous to had contributed whatever they could provide. Dozens of people arrive, with a whole laundry basket full of money, jewelry, and other valuables. A telegram arrives from Samwainwrightfrankalbertson in Europe, saying that he had been contacted by Mr. Gower, and would advance up to 25,000 to cover the debt on the BampL. Harrybailey.ailey arrives from New York, and toasts To my big bother Georgebaileyjamesstewart. the richest man in town.  In the last scene, a bell on the Christmas tree rings. Zuzukarolyngrimes.arolyngrimes says Look, daddy. Teacher says, every time a bell rings, an angel gets his wings. Georgebaileyjamesstewart.ailey says That's right. That's right. And, glancing heavenward, Attaboy, Clarenceodbody.