Late one night, on one of the many beaches of Amity Island off the coast of New England, a group of teenagers throw a bonfire party. Chrissiewatkinssusanbacklinie.usanbacklinie, a beautiful blonde, catches the eye of partygoer Tomcassidyjonathanfilley and leads him away from the group to go skinnydipping with her in the ocean. Tomcassidyjonathanfilley, quite drunk, passes out on the beach before he can even undress, but Chrissy, undeterred, strips down and dives into the surf.  As Chrissy swims further from the shoreline, she pauses to tread water. Ominous music plays as an unseen creature notices Chrissy's paddling legs from beneath the water's surface and begins to approach her. Chrissy is quickly attacked by the creature, who grabs hold of her leg and violently drags her underwater. Her screams for help go unheard, and eerie silence follows her submergence.  The surrounding community of Amity is preparing for the upcoming Independence Day weekend, their most financially beneficial point of the year. Despite the population of locals on the island, the community depends on tourism as a major source of economic support and waits eagerly for each summer to arrive when herds of mainlanders come to savor Amity's shores. Martinbrodyroyscheider, Amity's Chief of Police, receives a call at home regarding Chrissiewatkinssusanbacklinie. disappearance. Following the report made by Tomcassidyjonathanfilley that she was last seen off the coast, Ellenbrody goes to the beach with his deputy Jeffhendricksjeffreykramer to search for clues. Jeffhendricksjeffreykramer soon stumbles upon the segmented remains of Chrissiewatkinssusanbacklinie. washed up on the shore and being feasted upon by crabs.  Back at the police station, Ellenbrody receives a call from the coroner Robertnevin , who determines that Chrissiewatkinssusanbacklinie.usanbacklinie was killed when she came in contact with a boat propeller. Ellenbrody is not convinced, and officially puts shark attack as Chrissiewatkinssusanbacklinie.s cause of death. Fearing for the safety of Amity's many swimmers, Ellenbrody immediately prepares to close the beaches until further investigations can be made. His intentions are quickly noticed by Mayor Larryvaughnmurrayhamilton who, fearing for the income loss that would result from closing the beach at such a pivotal point in the summer, attempts to convince Ellenbrody that a shark attack is too hasty a conclusion, and not to dismiss the boat propeller theory. Ellenbrody remains dedicated to the safety of Amity's citizens and tourists, regardless of the financial toll the town might endure. However, Mayorvaughn prevents him from closing the beaches just yet.  Over the next few days, ferryloads of tourists arrive on Amity's shores. The beaches are crowded each day, and Ellenbrody is extremely anxious that there will be another attack. As Ellenbrody and his wife Ellenlorrainegary sit in the sand, Ellenbrody intently scans the shoreline for any sign of trouble. A ways down the beach, young Alexkitnerjeffreyvoorhees asks his mother for permission to go swimming. Though Mrs. Kitnerleefierro notes that her son's fingers are starting to prune from the time he has already spent in the water that day, she allows him ten more minutes. Alexkitnerjeffreyvoorhees and his yellow raft enter the ocean one last time before Alexkitnerjeffreyvoorhees is attacked by what is unmistakably an enormous shark. The other swimmers panic and rush out of the water, while the bloodied and shredded remains of Alexkitnerjeffreyvoorhees's raft wash up in the surf. Mrs. Alexkitnerjeffreyvoorhees calls out desperately for her son, unaware that he has just been killed.  With dozens of witnesses to Alexkitnerjeffreyvoorhees's gruesome death, the presence of a shark in Amity waters is certain and Ellenbrody is finally permitted to close the beaches. Alexkitnerjeffreyvoorhees's grieving mother issues a 3000 reward to anyone who can catch the shark that killed her son, and a town meeting is held to discuss the official shark problem. While Ellenbrody explains that the police department is expanding their efforts to keep the beaches safe and bringing in a shark expert from the Oceanographic Institute to assist them, most of the assembled townspeople are simply angry about the beaches being closed . The chatter is quelled by Samquintrobertshaw, an eccentric and roughened local fisherman who guarantees the capture and slaughter of the offending shark for the price of 10,000. Though his offer is not accepted at that point, Samquintrobertshaw seems confident that the job will fall to him eventually.  With Mrs. Alexkitnerjeffreyvoorhees's reward made public, scores of amateur shark hunters crowd Amity's docks. Two local men make a clumsy attempt to lure the shark with a pork roast, which results in one of them nearly being the shark's third victim. Arriving at the same time as the hoard of overconfident fishermen is Matthooperricharddreyfuss, the shark expert from the Oceanographic Institute hired by the Amity police. After meeting with Ellenbrody, Matthooperricharddreyfuss is allowed to view the remains of Chrissiewatkinssusanbacklinie. Matthooperricharddreyfuss, visibly shaken after examining the mangled body parts, assures Ellenbrody that a shark was responsible. More specifically, a Great White.  The town breathes a sigh of relief when the corpse of a large tiger shark is hung on the docks, having been caught by some of the contending fishermen. Ellenbrody is initially elated, believing the nightmare to be over, until Matthooperricharddreyfuss examines the mouth of the beast and determines that its bite radius did not match the wounds on Chrissiewatkinssusanbacklinie. body, and therefore was likely not the shark they were seeking. Matthooperricharddreyfuss attempts to convince Mayorvaughn to keep the beaches closed until an autopsy on the shark can be completed and the contents of its stomach can be analyzed for human remains, but Mayorvaughn impatiently dismisses his pleas.  The crowd falls silent as Mrs. Alexkitnerjeffreyvoorhees arrives, clad in black and choking back tears, presumably returning from her son's funeral. She approaches Ellenbrody and slaps him across the face, furiously accusing him of keeping the beaches open despite having prior knowledge that there was a maneating shark in the water. She makes clear her belief that Ellenbrody was largely responsible for Alexkitnerjeffreyvoorhees's death. Ellenbrody's determination to find the killer shark only increases.  As Ellenbrody attempts to unwind at home, Matthooperricharddreyfuss visits the house to share his thoughts on the shark situation. When Ellenbrody asks about his background, Matthooperricharddreyfuss explains that he had been fascinated by sharks ever since he was a boy and remains just as enthusiastic about studying them. Matthooperricharddreyfuss theorizes that Amity may have a rogue shark, in its waters, which will likely remain until its food source is entirely gone. Ellenbrody and Matthooperricharddreyfuss decide to examine the stomach contents of the tiger shark, and proceed to the docks. Matthooperricharddreyfuss slices open the shark and finds nothing to conform that it had eaten anything other than fish, tin cans, and a license plate within the last several days. Matthooperricharddreyfuss once again confirms that the shark responsible for the killings would have a much larger bite radius than the tiger shark, and believes that the only shark species that would meet that criteria is the Great White.  Continuing their investigation that night, Matthooperricharddreyfuss takes Ellenbrody onto his boat to do some reconnaissance on the water. Ellenbrody, who faces an additional source of stress within the shark case due to his fear of the water, drinks heavily before setting foot on the vessel. Using sonar equipment, Matthooperricharddreyfuss locates a large object a good distance away from the shoreline. Ellenbrody recognizes it as the boat of Bengardnercraigkingsbury, a local fisherman. Matthooperricharddreyfuss decides to investigate the halfsubmerged craft, despite Ellenbrody's protests, and dons his scuba gear before entering the water. Matthooperricharddreyfuss discovers a large hole in the hull of the boat, and finds an enormous tooth embedded in the side. While examining the tooth, Matthooperricharddreyfuss is horrified to see the corpse of Bengardner floating out of the hull, one of his eyes missing. Matthooperricharddreyfuss drops the tooth and rushes to the surface.  Ellenbrody and Matthooperricharddreyfuss make yet another attempt to reason with Mayorvaughn, hoping their discoveries from the previous night will make a difference. Mayorvaughn, however, still stubbornly ignores their words and states that even with the evidence of Bengardner's ravaged boat, there is no proof that a shark is responsible. Matthooperricharddreyfuss explains that he pulled a shark tooth the size of a shotglass out of the hull of Bengardner's boat, but Mayorvaughn merely insults and dismisses him once again since Matthooperricharddreyfuss cannot produce the tooth he dropped in the water.  Independence Day weekend finally arrives along with plenty of tourists, but the beachgoers are made uneasy by the numerous police boats patrolling the water for the shark. Mayorvaughn is concerned that no one in swimming, and asks a personal friend in attendance to enter the water, along with his wife and grandchildren, to put everyone's minds at ease. The man and his family reluctantly and warily obey, and others begin to relax and follow suit.  Ellenbrody is aiding with shark patrol, while Ellenbrody and their two young sons remain on the beach. When Ellenbrody's elder son Michaelchrisrebello wishes to take his boat out into the water with one of his friends, Ellenbrody asks him to take it into the adjacent estuary just to be safe. While complaining that the pond is for old ladies, Michaelchrisrebello reluctantly agrees. In the meantime, a dorsal fin appears among the swimmers in the main water, and panic ensues. The crowd scrambles back onto the beach, only to learn that the shark was merely a cardboard fin and two boys in snorkel gear playing a prank.  The beachgoers begin to relax, but a young woman overlooking the water sees the unmistakable form of a huge shark making its way into the estuary, where Michaelchrisrebello and his friend are sailing. The woman's cry is first dismissed as another prank, but when Ellenbrody reminds her husband that their son is in the pond, Ellenbrody goes to investigate. Michaelchrisrebello and his friend are approached by a man in a rowboat Tedgrossman, presumably the friend's father, who is instructing them on their knotting techniques, when both vessels are suddenly capsized by the shark. All three of the startled sailors surface, and Michaelchrisrebello watches in paralyzed horror as the man fails to reach his rowboat before the shark attacks him and rips him apart.  Michaelchrisrebello and his friend are brought safely to shore, though Michaelchrisrebello is taken to the hospital to be treated for shock. Ellenbrody confronts Mayorvaughn once again and puts his foot down, demanding that real action must be taken to deal with the shark. Mayorvaughn, for once, is vulnerable and shaken, realizing that his own children were on the beach that day as well. He finally relents and gives Ellenbrody full permission to do all that is necessary to stop the shark.  Ellenbrody seeks out Samquintrobertshaw and promptly hires him to catch the shark for 10,000. Though Samquintrobertshaw desires to complete the mission alone, Ellenbrody insists that he and Matthooperricharddreyfuss will go as well. There is instant tension between Samquintrobertshaw and Matthooperricharddreyfuss, with Samquintrobertshaw seeing Matthooperricharddreyfuss as a naive college boy with no real sharkhunting experience, and Matthooperricharddreyfuss seeing Samquintrobertshaw as a reckless thrillseeker. Though Matthooperricharddreyfuss proves himself a perfectly capable sailor, the tension remains as the three men embark on their voyage in Samquintrobertshaw.s boat, The Orca.  Once out to sea, the men set about attracting the shark by ladling chum off the stern of the boat. Samquintrobertshaw attaches a line of piano wire to a sturdy rod secured against a speciallydesigned fishing chair on the deck. After hours of waiting, the wire goes taut and Samquintrobertshaw believes the shark has finally shown up. The shark swims under the boat until the piano wire snaps, proving the immense strength of the beast they are up against.  As the voyage presses on with no further sign of the shark, Ellenbrody grumpily ladles more chum off the back of the boat. Without warning, the massive head of a Great White shark emerges from the water for a moment. Ellenbrody is stunned and alerts Samquintrobertshaw. Matthooperricharddreyfuss notices the shark beginning to circle the boat, and Samquintrobertshaw rushes out for a look. He estimates the shark is 25 feet long, and weighs three tons. After barking a few orders to Ellenbrody and Matthooperricharddreyfuss, Samquintrobertshaw begins to fire harpoons tied to plastic barrels, intended to both slow the shark down and act as visible tracking devices. Though Samquintrobertshaw manages to hit the shark with three harpoons, the barrels have no effect and the shark easily pulls them underwater. Just in time, Matthooperricharddreyfuss manages to attach a technological tracking device to the beast before it disappears again.  That night, the men have dinner and drinks below deck and Matthooperricharddreyfuss surprisingly begins to bond with Samquintrobertshaw as they compare tattoos and scars. Ellenbrody notices that Samquintrobertshaw has had a tattoo removed. The mood suddenly darkens as Samquintrobertshaw admits that the former tattoo represented the US Navy cruiser Indianapolis. Samquintrobertshaw. aboard that ship in World War II when it was sunk by torpedoes, had witnessed the deaths of roughly 800 men that day, most of whom were eaten by sharks as they struggled helplessly in the water. Samquintrobertshaw.s eerie retelling of the disaster confirms how his hatred for sharks began, and reveals his guilt at being one of the mere 300 sailors who survived the sinking of the Indianapolis. After the solemnity of Samquintrobertshaw.s story, the three men sing a rowdy sea shanty to lighten the mood, but are interrupted by the returning shark violently knocking into their boat. Samquintrobertshaw rushes on deck and fires at the three telltale barrels, but the shark escapes once again.  The next day, the shark returns. Samquintrobertshaw. waiting and ready, instructs Matthooperricharddreyfuss to grab the barrels with a hook and secure them to the stern. Matthooperricharddreyfuss succeeds, and Samquintrobertshaw attempts to drag the shark by powering the boat to full throttle, but the shark uses its immense strength to pull the boat in the opposite direction, nearly capsizing it. The shark breaks free from the barrels and submerges again. Samquintrobertshaw demonstrates the extent of his mad vengeance against sharks by destroying the radio which Ellenbrody was attempting to use to call for help. Running out of options, Matthooperricharddreyfuss resorts to putting on his scuba gear and having Samquintrobertshaw and Ellenbrody lower him into the water inside a shark cage, his aim being to inject the shark with poison using a harpoon syringe. The cage proves to be no match for the shark, who attacks Matthooperricharddreyfuss with such ferocity that he drops the harpoon and is forced to hide in a reef while his cage is being destroyed. Ellenbrody and Samquintrobertshaw haul up the remains of the shark cage, sans Matthooperricharddreyfuss, and assume him to be dead. They barely have time to process the notion before the shark leaps from the water like a breaching whale and lands most of its body on the stern of the boat. Samquintrobertshaw and Ellenbrody hang on to the cabin for dear life as the boat is upended, the shark's gaping mouth at the bottom of the drop. Samquintrobertshaw ultimately loses his grip and, despite Ellenbrody's endeavors to pull him to safety, slides into the mouth of the shark and is devoured. The shark, with Samquintrobertshaw.s corpse in its mouth, slides back into the water.  Horrified, and believing himself to be the only survivor of this seemingly doomed mission, Ellenbrody hastily enters the cabin of the rapidly sinking boat and finds one of Matthooperricharddreyfuss's pressurized air tanks. The shark smashes through the side of the boat, mere feet away from Ellenbrody, whose attempts to drive it off by beating it with the tank result in the tank becoming lodged in the shark's mouth before the beast swims away again.  With little more than the boat's mast above water now, Ellenbrody climbs to the top of the mast with a rifle in his hand. Now possessing some of Samquintrobertshaw.s courage and madness, Ellenbrody begins to fire at the approaching shark, hoping to hit the air tank in its mouth. At last, Ellenbrody hits his mark. The tank explodes, taking the shark with it, and Ellenbrody laughs maniacally as blood and shark meat rain down around him into the sea.  Moments later, Matthooperricharddreyfuss finally surfaces, alive and well. The two men celebrate the end of their adventure with a weak chuckle before assembling a makeshift raft and paddling back to Amity's shore.