An opening montage, narrated by Sidhudgens , publisher of HushHush, a Hollywood sleaze magazine, explains that Mickeycohen has taken over the organized crime rackets in Los Angeles  and that his actions have tarnished the reputation of the LA police department. Mickeycohen, however, is arrested on income tax evasion and sent to prison on MacNeil Island in Washington state, leaving open the rackets he'd expanded for years.  The story documents the intertwining paths of three separate Los Angeles police officers Detective Jackvincennes  and Sergeant Edmundexley.undexley .   Officer Wendellbudwhite  During Christmas, 1952, police officer Wendellbudwhite , while out on a liquor run with his partner, Dickstensland, checks in on a man he'd sent to San Quentin State Penitentiary and finds him physically abusing his wife. Wendellbudwhite has no tolerance for those who impose violence against women, seeing how his own mother was killed by his drunk and abusive father. To lure the wifebeater outside, Wendellbudwhite yanks the man's lighted Santa sleigh and reindeer decorations from the roof of the house. When the man comes outside to confront Wendellbudwhite, Wendellbudwhite beats him senseless and handcuffs him to the porch railing. Wendellbudwhite tells the man he'll be sent back to prison for about 18 months and that he'll be watching him after he's released.  Wendellbudwhite and Stensland next go to a liquor store where they buy alcohol for a party at their precinct. Wendellbudwhite meets a beautiful woman in the store named Lynnbracken. who easily recognizes that he is a cop. Leaving the store, Wendellbudwhite notices a young woman, whose face is bruised and bandaged, sitting in the backseat of a car with another unidentified man. When Wendellbudwhite inquires about what happened, he is met by the car's driver, Leland 'Buzz' Meeks, who tries to shine him on. Wendellbudwhite disarms him and inquires further about the injured woman, who tells him herself that she's OK. He returns Meeks' pistol and wallet. When he gets back to his own car, Stensland confirms that Meeks is a former cop.   Sgt. Jackvincennes  At a lavish Hollywood Christmas party, Jackvincennes , a narcotics detective, is dancing with his date when he is met by Sidhudgens. Sidhudgens has come with a hot tip for Jackvincennes two starlets, Mattreynolds and Tammyjordan, have purchased a small quantity of marijuana and have rented a hotel bungalow. Sidhudgens promises Vincennes a 50 payment  for doing the bust, provided that Sidhudgens can cover the incident and feature it in  HushHush.   Sgt. Edmundexley.xley  At a local police precinct, Sgt. Edmundexley.und 'Edmundexley. Edmundexley.xley  has been assigned as watch commander for the evening. He is interviewed by a reporter from the  Los Angeles Times, who cite his late father's own famous reputation as a police officer, suggesting that Edmundexley.xley has a lot to live up to. Edmundexley.xley also talks to his captain, Dudleysmith , who tells the young officer that unless he's willing to adopt the brutal tactics  employed by officers like his father, he'll never be a successful detective in the department. Edmundexley.xley tells him he intends to build his career as an honest cop. Dudleysmith also asks Edmundexley.xley if he's willing to be hated within the department. Edmundexley.xley says he is.  Meanwhile, Vincennes busts Matt and Tammy and arrests them in a gaudy show that Sidhudgens headlines as the Movie Premiere Pot Bust . While Vincennes is investigating the bungalow, he is intrigued to find a business card for an agency called Fleurdelis.  Later, at Dudleysmith.s precinct, Jackvincennes brings in Matt and Tammy and has them booked for possession of marijuana. The extra 50 he asked for over and above his usual 50 was a 20 payoff each for the two officers that assisted him and a final 10 for Edmundexley.xley. Edmundexley.xley turns Jackvincennes down, telling him to keep the money himself, a reply that perplexes Vincennes.  At that moment, three Mexican suspects are brought in it is believed they assaulted two police officers. The details of the incident quickly become hyperbolic, starting as reports of mild injuries, to both officers being near death in the hospital. Stensland and some of the other other party goers, already heavily intoxicated, rush downstairs to the holding area. Refusing to recognize Edmundexley.xley.s authority as watch commander, the scene quickly becomes ugly as the Mexican prisoners are viciously beaten. Edmundexley.xley is locked in the isolation room when he tries to intervene. Wendellbudwhite tries to pull Stensland off one of the prisoners and calm him down only to get provoked into the attack when insulted by one of them. Vincennes joins in as well when a prisoner falls on him, bloodying his fancy suit. The reporters who'd been interviewing Edmundexley.xley are also present, snapping a photo of the fight.  The photo of the jailhouse melee makes the front page of  The Los Angeles Times, describing the incident as Bloody Christmas. The LAPD Chief, District Attorney Ellisloew and Dudleysmith meet with Wendellbudwhite, Vincennes and Edmundexley.xley separately. Wendellbudwhite staunchly refuses to rat on Stensland as the ringleader of the incident and is ordered suspended without pay. Edmundexley.xley. knowing that his own testimony will secure him a promotion to lieutenant and detective level, agrees to appear in court as a surprise witness. Knowing that they'll need the testimony of a third witness, Edmundexley.xley suggests Vincennes. Edmundexley.xley also suggests that if Vincennes is unwilling to testify, that his privilege as technical advisor on the popular television show Badge of Honor will be revoked. Vincennes agrees and accepts a transfer to the vice department following a temporary suspension. Edmundexley.xley is given his promotions.  Within days, the fallout from the scandal blows over Stensland is officially terminated from the police force as a scapegoat, while several other officers are forced into early retirement. Edmundexley.xley moves up to homicide investigation and is immediately despised by his fellow colleagues, while Vincennes joins the Vice squad. Wendellbudwhite is taken off suspension when he agrees to aid Dudleysmith in a new project, in which they intercept mobsters who intend to move into LA and take over Mickeycohen's businesses. The suspects are taken to a remote and abandoned motel complex called the Victory Motel and are beaten by Wendellbudwhite and forced to leave the city. Sidhudgens reports in  HushHush that a string of murders of former Mickeycohen lieutenants by twoman teams armed with Thompson submachine guns may be a power struggle to gain control of the void left by Mickeycohen's imprisonment. In one incident, Mickeycohen's top heroin dealer is murdered in his house and 20 kilograms of product is stolen by the unidentified killers.  On his first night in Homicide, shortly after 200 AM, Edmundexley.xley gets a call about a murder at the Nite Owl coffee shop, a regular hangout for cops. Edmundexley.xley arrives on the scene and finds the cook shot dead behind the counter, and the cash register emptied, suggesting a robbery. He notices an overturned chair and realizes there were several customers inside. He then notices a blood trail that leads to the men's bathroom. Following this trail, he finds five more bodies piled up in the bathroom, all riddled with shotgun holes.  Dudleysmith arrives and assumes command of the investigation, making Edmundexley.xley his second in command. The forensics team quickly reports that there were six, all killed with shotguns. The shooters apparently fired fifteen rounds, which suggests three Remington shotguns with fiveshot capacity and three gunmen. One of the dead has already been identified Stensland.  Upon hearing that Stensland has been killed, Wendellbudwhite rushes to the hospital to look at the body. Crestfallen to see his friend is among the dead, and demands the story from Edmundexley.xley who fills him in. Another of the victims, Susanlefferts, is seen by Wendellbudwhite when her mother identifies her. When he sees her body, Wendellbudwhite immediately recognizes Susanlefferts as the woman in the car who appeared to be injured the night he and Stensland were purchasing the liquor.  Putting aside all other investigations, the senior detectives are assigned to the search and apprehension of the Nite Owl killers. Edmundexley.xley himself will lead the interrogations of the suspects when they are caught. Leads are few but a report of three negro males firing shotguns, driving a late 1940s Mercury Coupe, will be followed by all the twoman teams involved.  Wendellbudwhite doesn't think it could be a coincidence that two of the Nite Owl victims  Stensland and Susanlefferts  encountered each other well before the killings. Acting on his hunches, he strikes out on his own, refusing to be partnered. He returns to the liquor store where he met Lynnbracken. and upon asking the owner, is given the address of a man named Piercepatchett , the man sitting next to Susanlefferts the night he met her and Meeks. Wendellbudwhite talks to Piercepatchett and finds out that the woman he met in the liquor store, Lynnbracken.racken , and Susanlefferts are part of a prostitution ring run by Piercepatchett himself that uses plastic surgery to give his women the appearance of famous movie stars. The prostitution ring is dubbed Fleurdelis and is part of a file Vincennes had seen when he joined Vice, and whose business card he found when he busted Mattreynolds. Lynnbracken.racken is Piercepatchett's Veronicalake while Susanlefferts is Ritahayworth. However, Piercepatchett refuses to divulge any details about Susanlefferts' murder and cuts the meeting short.  Edmundexley.xley joins Vincennes on a hunch and they turn up the address of a black man who drives the car mentioned in the lead. They track the man and his two friends to their home and find the car and shotguns in a garage. They also find two officers, Michaelbreuning and Williamcarlisle, ahead of them. Vincennes argues briefly with the two other officers about who will arrest the three men Michaelbreuning and Williamcarlisle had gotten there first and Vincennes knows the arrest will get him back in with the narcotics squad. Edmundexley.xley pulls rank and orders them to all proceed together and the three black men, Sugarraycollins, Tyjones, and Lewisfontaine, are arrested without much incident, although Edmundexley.xley has to deflect Williamcarlisle's shotgun to keep him from shooting one of the suspects.  During the questioning of the suspects and using the interrogation room's PA speakers and microphones, Edmundexley.xley demonstrates brilliant tactical skill, tricking the three men into believing they have informed on each other. The three already have criminal records and have spent time in juvenile facilities, which Edmundexley.xley also uses to his advantage. One of them, crying and nearly hysterical, tells Edmundexley.xley that they'd visited the house of another man, Sylvesterfitch, so he could lose his virginity to a woman held captive there. Enraged, Wendellbudwhite rushes into the room of the next man and, drawing his pistol and emptying every chamber in the cylinder but one, he puts the muzzle in the man's mouth and plays Russian Roulette, demanding Fitch's address, which the man gives up.  A team is sent out to Fitch's house and Wendellbudwhite sneaks in first, finding a young Mexican woman bound naked to a bed and obviously beaten, and possibly raped. Wendellbudwhite finds Fitch watching TV, and shoots him dead, before planting a fired pistol on him. When the victim is driven away in an ambulance, Edmundexley.xley tries to ask her when the three black men left her but Wendellbudwhite stops him, waving the ambulance away. Wendellbudwhite seems angered that Edmundexley.xley is only concerned about furthering his career, which Edmundexley.xley counters by saying that Stensland got what he deserved and Wendellbudwhite's fate will be the same. Wendellbudwhite tries to attack Edmundexley.xley but is held back. At that moment a report is issued that the three black men have escaped from the precinct.  Edmundexley.xley. talking to a stenographer, gets an address that was given by one of the black men where they had bought drugs. Unable to get Vincennes, Edmundexley.xley takes Williamcarlisle with him to the address and they burst in to find the three suspects there with their narcotics supplier, Rolandnavarette. Lewisfontaine accidentally knocks a bottle off the table, the triggerhappy Williamcarlisle shoots him. All hell breaks loose as Rolandnavarette lethally shoots Williamcarlisle multiple times, until Edmundexley.xley shoots him. Tyjones attempts to grab a revolver, but Edmundexley.xley shoots him. Raycollins tries to flee to the elevator, but Edmundexley.xley jams his shotgun in just as the door is about to close and fires, hitting him in the chest.  Edmundexley.xley is greeted as a hero back at the station and Dudleysmith dubs him Shotgun Edmundexley. The murder case is seemingly solved, Edmundexley.xley is given the department's highest decoration, the Medal of Valor, for bravery in the line of duty, and earns the respect of the other detectives in the department who previously despised him. Vincennes returns to the narcotics squad and the Badge of Honor. In the meantime, Piercepatchett breaks ground on an ambitious project, a freeway running from the eastern sections of LA to the beaches of Santa Monica, one he is heavily invested in. To do so, he has blackmailed a councilman into approving the project with some compromising photos showing him cavorting with Lynnbracken.  Back on the set of Badge of Honor, Vincennes meets with Sidhudgens, who offers him another job Sidhudgens is deliberately setting up LA District Attorney Ellisloew in a blackmail scheme by arranging a sexual encounter with Mattreynolds  both of whom will be busted by Vincennes. Vincennes feels extreme guilt about the job and goes to the hotel early to let the young actor off the hook. Instead, he finds Reynolds dead, someone having slit his throat.  Wendellbudwhite begins a romantic relationship with Lynnbracken.racken and continues his work with Dudleysmith. beating mobsters at the Victory. The work has turned Wendellbudwhite into a burnout and his affair with Lynnbracken.racken has softened his otherwise vicious demeanor. However, Wendellbudwhite becomes suspicious of many of the details surrounding the Nite Owl murders and talks to the coroner. The files from the case are still in the doctor's lab. Studying a picture of the seating area, Wendellbudwhite notices a spot of blood on the wall next to one of the tables, like one of the victims died there instead of in the men's bathroom. The doctor notes that that blood stain was Stensland's blood. The food on the table, and a lipstick mark on the coffee cup opposite Stensland's place, indicate to Wendellbudwhite that Stensland had been there with a woman . He is led to believe that said girlfriend was Susanlefferts after he learns that only two women were killed Susanlefferts and a night shift waitress.  Wendellbudwhite visits the home of Susanlefferts' distraught mother. As Wendellbudwhite expects, she identifies Stensland from a photograph as Susanlefferts's boyfriend she disapproved of. She also tells Wendellbudwhite that Stensland had been seen with another man carrying a large bundle into her backyard. When Wendellbudwhite notices that Mrs. Susanlefferts has a towel placed at the bottom of a door leading to her back sun room to block a strong unpleasant stench, he checks out the crawlspace under the house and finds a rotted corpse. He finds a wallet in the coat placed on the body. Much to his shock, the body is that of Buzzmeeks, Piercepatchett's former chauffeur. Wendellbudwhite deliberately leaves the body behind for someone else to find and tells Susanlefferts' mother that the stench is a big rat.  Back at the station, Edmundexley.xley talks to the coroner that Wendellbudwhite had spoken to earlier. Edmundexley.xley follows Wendellbudwhite's lead to Mrs. Susanlefferts' home amp finds Meeks' remains. He takes it to the morgue, demanding an identity on the body, then goes to Vincennes and asks for his help in investigating further details about the Nite Owl case. Edmundexley.xley convinces Vincennes by sharing the story of how his father was killed by a random mugger, whom was never identified, but whom Edmundexley.xley has always named Rollotomasi to give him a personality. Vincennes agrees to help Edmundexley.xley if Edmundexley.xley will help him solve Reynolds's murder. Vincennes tails Wendellbudwhite to the Formosa Bar where Wendellbudwhite catches up with mob enforcer, Johnnystompanato, Mickeycohen's former bodyguard, and finds out  that Meeks had come into a large supply of heroin. Wendellbudwhite concludes that Meeks was murdered for it.  Vincennes and Edmundexley.xley next see Wendellbudwhite at Lynnbracken.racken's house. Vincennes remembers Fleurdelis amp realizes that Lynnbracken.racken is one of Piercepatchett's prostitutes. A call comes in telling them that Meeks' body has been ID'd. Vincennes goes to get the news while Edmundexley.xley pays a call to Lynnbracken. Refusing to answer the lieutenant's questions, she seduces him while Sidhudgens photographs them both from behind a oneway mirror.  Vincennes, going through old records, finds a connection between Dickstensland, Buzzmeeks and Dudleysmith. He goes to Dudleysmith.s house to inquire about how Dudleysmith signed off on a lot of work that both Stensland and Meeks performed over the past few years. Dudleysmith listens long enough to find out if Vincennes had told Edmundexley.xley anything when Jackvincennes says he hadn't informed Edmundexley.und of the connection between Dudleysmith. Meeks and Stensland, Dudleysmith suddenly produces a revolver and shoots Jackvincennes in the chest. Before Vincennes dies, he chortles, and says Rollotomasi.  Dudleysmith announces the next day that the department will suspend all other cases until Jackvincennes's killer is found. He talks directly to Edmundexley.xley about the only lead Jackvincennes's last words. Edmundexley.xley manages to keep a straight face as he realizes that Dudleysmith could only know that name if he was the one who shot Vincennes. He lies and says he knows nothing of the name.  Dudleysmith meets with Wendellbudwhite and criticizes him for what he deems a lack of enthusiasm concerning his job. He also tells Wendellbudwhite that they'll be going to the Victory Motel to interrogate the man he believes last saw Vincennes alive. It turns out to be Sidhudgens. Dudleysmith asks him a few questions which don't provide much information. However, during the beating administered by Wendellbudwhite himself, Sidhudgens talks about how Piercepatchett uses his women for blackmail. He mentions that he's photographed a cop having sex with Lynnbracken. Wendellbudwhite becomes enraged, thinking that Sidhudgens spied on him. He turns Sidhudgens' chair over and rushes out to the reporter's car. In the trunk, he finds pictures, not of himself with Lynnbracken. but of Lynnbracken.racken with Edmundexley.xley. Wendellbudwhite becomes further enraged and drives off. Meanwhile, Dudleysmith and Michaelbreuning suffocate Sidhudgens over his protests that he was part of a team with them.  Edmundexley.xley checks with records keeping for arrest warrant books on Buzzmeeks and finds nothing. When he checks the daily log books he finds that Dudleysmith had signed off on nearly all of Meeks' and Stensland's work for many years and realizes the connection between them is prominent. Wendellbudwhite visits Lynnbracken.s house, furiously and jealously demanding to know about her tryst with Edmundexley.xley. When she tries to calm him down, he hits her, bruising her face.  Wendellbudwhite finds Edmundexley.xley in the records room at the precinct and attacks him after showing him the photo of he and Lynnbracken.racken together. Edmundexley.xley manages to fight Wendellbudwhite off and claims that the photo was planted to make Wendellbudwhite try to kill Edmundexley.xley. The two stop their battle and begin to share details they've uncovered Meeks, Stensland, Vincennes, Reynolds' murder, the missing heroin are all linked. Edmundexley.xley now realizes that the black men that were charged with the Nite Owl attack were set up when he and Vincennes showed up, Michaelbreuning and Williamcarlisle were already there and had planted the shotguns, and were going to kill the three men so that no questions would be asked if they were caught resisting arrest. In order to piece it all together, the two agree to work as partners, even at the expense of Edmundexley.xley.s reputation for solving the Nite Owl murder case, which built his career.  They go to Ellisloew's office and demand wiretaps for Dudleysmith. Ellisloew refuses and further refuses to divulge any information about Reynolds' murder and dismisses them, stepping into his office bathroom. Wendellbudwhite shoves the DA's head into the toilet and dangles him out the window. Ellisloew caves and tells him that Reynolds was killed because he was present when he and Dudleysmith argued over the assumption of the Mickeycohen drugdealing rackets. Ellisloew was allowed to live because of his influence and because he promised not to prosecute them. Wendellbudwhite and Edmundexley.und agree that their next stop is Piercepatchett's house.  When they arrive there, they find that they're too late, as Dudleysmith or someone working for him has slit Piercepatchett's wrists and made it look like a suicide. Believing that Lynnbracken.racken had some knowledge of Piercepatchett's plan, they arrange to have her taken to a nearby police station for safety. Edmundexley.xley goes there and talks to her, saying Wendellbudwhite feels great remorse for beating her. Wendellbudwhite goes to Sidhudgens' office and finds that Dudleysmith has dumped his body there. While there, he receives a call telling him to meet Edmundexley.xley at the Victory Motel.  At the Victory, the two find that the calls were planted to get them together in a vulnerable location. They hold up in the same cabin where Sidhudgens was murdered. Dudleysmith.s men approach the cabin and Wendellbudwhite and Edmundexley.xley open fire a fierce gunfight ensues. They eventually kill all of Dudleysmith.s men, however they are confronted by Dudleysmith himself, who shoots Wendellbudwhite, forcing him to fall. Dudleysmith turns his gun on a cornered Edmundexley.xley. who says Rollotomasi. Dudleysmith asks who the man is, Edmundexley.xley tells him it's Dudleysmith himself, merely because he's a man who can evade the law. Dudleysmith hears approaching police cars and tells Edmundexley.xley to walk out with him, promising to further the younger man's career. He also tells Edmundexley.und to show his badge. Edmundexley.xley shoots Dudleysmith in the back and walks out, holding his badge as Dudleysmith instructed.  Sitting in one of the same interview rooms he used to interrogate the three black men, Edmundexley.xley explains the intricate connections in the case. The DA and LAPD Chief are incredulous but realize the department's reputation for upholding the law will be threatened. While floating the solution of glorifying Dudleysmith with Edmundexley.xley.s help, they spot Edmundexley.xley beaming. When the Chief asks him why, he says they'll need more than one hero.  In the final scene, Edmundexley.xley is once again presented with the LAPD Medal of Valor. He spots Lynnbracken.racken and walks out with her. In her car is Wendellbudwhite, bandaged and recovering from his wounds. Lynnbracken.racken says they're going to her hometown of Bisbee, Arizona. Edmundexley.und and Wendellbudwhite shakes hands and Lynnbracken.racken drives off.