This is a complex story about Leonardshelbyguypearce, a man whose ability to make new memories is damaged when he is struck in the head while confronting two people who are attacking his wife Jorjafox at their home in the middle of the night. He kills one of the attackers during the attack and one of the last things Leonardshelbyguypearce remembers is his wife dying. He devotes his life to finding and killing the second attacker.  The movie alternates between color and black and white sequences. The black and white sequences proceed in chronological order, while the color sequences proceed in reverse chronological order. The forward black and white scenes and the reverse color scenes alternate until they meet in the middle of the story at the end of the film.  In the two disc DVD set, the second disc contains the movie in chronological order. To play this version of the movie  select the clock icon  select the answer C to every multiple choice question and  arrange the tire changing steps in reverse chronological order . The movie begins to play with the credits first  in backward order. Some functions  are disabled.  This synopsis describes the scenes in chronological order. It is not the plot order presented in the film.  The story starts in black and white. Leonardshelbyguypearce wakes up in a room at the Discount Inn puzzled as to why he is there. The phone rings and he speaks with an unknown caller. He tells the caller that he suffers from anterograde amnesia, a condition which makes him unable to create new memories. He describes the condition by detailing the story of Sammyjankisstephentobolowsky.ankisstephentobolowsky, who had the same problem.  Leonardshelbyguypearce describes how one must have a system of notes to deal with the problems and a drive to use them. Leonardshelbyguypearce says he has the drive that Sammyjankisstephentobolowsky.ankis never had and the viewer sees Leonardshelbyguypearce's tattoo Johng. RAPED AND MURDERED MY WIFE as well as other clues and notes tattooed on his body.  Leonardshelbyguypearce continues the story and explains that he had just become an insurance investigator when he met Sammyjankisstephentobolowsky.ankis and was assigned to determine whether his condition was covered by his insurance policy. Sammyjankisstephentobolowsky.s condition was not like other cases of anterograde amnesia in that Sammyjankisstephentobolowsky.ankis was unable to learn through conditioning. After additional testing, Leonardshelbyguypearce says he concluded that Sammyjankisstephentobolowsky.s condition was psychological and the claim was denied because Sammyjankisstephentobolowsky.ankis was not covered for mental illness.  Leonardshelbyguypearce explains how Mrs. Jankisharrietsansomharris met privately with him. In trying to placate her, Leonardshelbyguypearce told her that Sammyjankisstephentobolowsky.ankis should be able to make new memories. She tested Sammyjankisstephentobolowsky.s memory by repeatedly asking him to give her insulin injections. She lapsed into a coma and never recovered from the overdose. Sammyjankisstephentobolowsky.ankis was then confined to a mental institution.  During this conversation, the caller and Leonardshelbyguypearce talk about Leonardshelbyguypearce's quest and how the police did not believe the story about the second attacker. The caller identifies himself as a policeman and provides Leonardshelbyguypearce with additional clues for his quest. Leonardshelbyguypearce tattoos the fact the second attacker was a drug dealer. The caller identifies the second attacker as Jimmygrantzlarryholden.rantz and tells Leonardshelbyguypearce that he has set up a meeting with Jimmygrantzlarryholden. Leonardshelbyguypearce agrees to meet the caller in the motel lobby.  In the lobby, Leonardshelbyguypearce meets a man Joepantoliano and asks him if he is Officer Johnedwardgammell. The man insists that Leonardshelbyguypearce should call him Teddy since he is undercover. Teddy gives Leonardshelbyguypearce directions to the meeting location and Leonardshelbyguypearce goes to meet Jimmygrantzlarryholden.rantz at an abandoned building outside of town.  When Jimmygrantzlarryholden.rantz Larry Holden arrives, he recognizes Leonardshelbyguypearce as the man with the memory condition, demands to know what Leonardshelbyguypearce is doing there, and asks where Teddy is. Leonardshelbyguypearce threatens Jimmygrantzlarryholden.rantz with a tire iron and tells him to strip. Jimmygrantzlarryholden.rantz pleads for his life and tells Leonardshelbyguypearce that there is 200,000 in the trunk of his car for payment of the drugs that Teddy was to have brought to the meeting. Leonardshelbyguypearce strangles Jimmygrantzlarryholden. takes a Polaroid photo of his body, and starts putting on Jimmygrantzlarryholden.s clothes. As the photo of Jimmygrantzlarryholden.s body develops, the film gradually goes from black and white into color.  The remaining story is in color, but proceeds in the film in reverse order.  As Leonardshelbyguypearce drags Jimmygrantzlarryholden.rantz into the basement, he hears Jimmygrantzlarryholden.rantz whisper Sammyjankisstephentobolowsky. before dying. Leonardshelbyguypearce concludes that if Jimmygrantzlarryholden.rantz knew about Sammyjankisstephentobolowsky. he was not the second attacker.  Teddy arrives at the scene and tries to convince Leonardshelbyguypearce that Jimmygrantzlarryholden.rantz was the man he was after. Leonardshelbyguypearce does not believe him. Teddy finally admits that Jimmygrantzlarryholden.rantz was a drug dealer who did not have anything to do with his wife's killing. Teddy then tells Leonardshelbyguypearce that his wife survived the attack. According to Teddy, Sammyjankisstephentobolowsky.ankis was a fraud who was not even married and it was Leonardshelbyguypearce's wife who was diabetic. Teddy claims to be the police officer who investigated his wife's murder. He says he believed him about the second attacker and helped him track down and kill the real Johng. more than a year ago. Teddy claims that he took a picture of a happy Leonardshelbyguypearce right after the second attacker was dead. Leonardshelbyguypearce forgot the killing and began searching for the dead Johng. all over again. Teddy tells Leonardshelbyguypearce there are plenty of Johngs to find and admits that he is even a Johng his full name is Johnedwardgammell and his mother calls him Teddy.  Before Lenny can forget Teddy's revelations, he decides to continue the hunt, lying to himself to set himself up to kill Teddy. He puts a note on Teddy's photo saying Don't believe his lies, records Teddy's license plate number as Johng's, and leaves himself a reminder to get a tattoo of the plate number, SG137IU. Leonardshelbyguypearce ditches Teddy by throwing Teddy's car keys into some weeds. Leonardshelbyguypearce then leaves his pickup truck at the refinery and drives away in Jimmygrantzlarryholden.s Jaguar, still wearing Jimmygrantzlarryholden.s clothes.  After forgetting Teddy's revelations and the lies to himself, Leonardshelbyguypearce finds a tattoo parlor and has the license plate number tatooed onto his leg. Teddy sees the Jaguar parked outside and comes in, trying to move the car and get Lenny to get out of town in some new clothes. Leonardshelbyguypearce sees the note on the back of Teddy's pictures and decides to leave without him.  Leonardshelbyguypearce finds a note in the pocket of Jimmygrantzlarryholden.s suit coat, which he is wearing. The note is from a Nataliecarrieannemoss telling Jimmygrantzlarryholden.rantz to come to Ferdy's bar. Not realizing he is wearing Jimmygrantzlarryholden.s clothes and driving Jimmygrantzlarryholden.s car, Leonardshelbyguypearce thinks the note is for him and goes to meet Nataliecarrieannemoss. He tells her about his condition. Nataliecarrieannemoss believes his story after a test.  Nataliecarrieannemoss takes Leonardshelbyguypearce to her home and tells him he can stay with her. Leonardshelbyguypearce recounts what he remembers of the attack. He says he awoke to sounds, got a gun, and found his wife being strangled. Leonardshelbyguypearce shot one intruder, but a second man clubbed him with a sap and smashed his head into a mirror. He goes on to explain that the cops did not believe there was a second attacker. Leonardshelbyguypearce tells Nataliecarrieannemoss that the second attacker was too smart and left the evidence to look like there was only one intruder.  Nataliecarrieannemoss tricks Leonardshelbyguypearce into going after a man named Doddcallumkeithrennie.allumkeithrennie, who she claims has been harassing her for the money from Jimmygrantzlarryholden.s prior drug deals. Leonardshelbyguypearce leaves to look for Doddcallumkeithrennie. Teddy is waiting for him as he leaves Nataliecarrieannemoss's home. Teddy tries to warn Leonardshelbyguypearce about Nataliecarrieannemoss, but after seeing the Don't believe his lies note on Teddy's picture, Leonardshelbyguypearce does not believe him. Leonardshelbyguypearce does decide he shouldn't stay with Nataliecarrieannemoss and follows Teddy's advice to go to the Discount Inn.  Leonardshelbyguypearce goes to the Discount Inn. Though Leonardshelbyguypearce has already paid for a room, Burtmarkboonejunior at the front desk takes advantage of his condition by renting him a second room. Leonardshelbyguypearce calls an escort service. When the escort arrives, Leonardshelbyguypearce explains to her that he wants only to relive going to sleep the night of the attack. After falling asleep, the escort wakes him. He asks the escort to leave. He then takes personal items belonging to his wife to a reservoir and burns them.  In the morning, Leonardshelbyguypearce leaves the reservoir and is spotted by Doddcallumkeithrennie. Leonardshelbyguypearce escapes Doddcallumkeithrennie.allumkeithrennie and goes to Doddcallumkeithrennie.s motel to wait for him. When Doddcallumkeithrennie.allumkeithrennie returns to his motel room, Leonardshelbyguypearce beats him and ties him up. Leonardshelbyguypearce calls Teddy for help in dealing with Doddcallumkeithrennie. Teddy comes to Doddcallumkeithrennie.s motel room. Leonardshelbyguypearce and Teddy convince Doddcallumkeithrennie.allumkeithrennie to leave town.  Returning the favor of getting rid of Doddcallumkeithrennie. Leonardshelbyguypearce spends the night at Nataliecarrieannemoss's. In the morning she agrees to trace the license plate number tatooed on Leonardshelbyguypearce's leg. Later that day, Nataliecarrieannemoss gives him the information along with directions to an abandoned place outside of town where a guy she knew used to do bigger deals. Leonardshelbyguypearce takes it back to his motel. At the motel, Leonardshelbyguypearce puts the clues together and concludes that Teddy is Johnedwardgammell and must be the second attacker. He calls Teddy and they go to the same abandoned building where Jimmygrantzlarryholden.rantz was killed a few days earlier. Leonardshelbyguypearce shoots Teddy in the head.