The story takes place in Monstropolis, a city populated entirely by monsters. Monstropolis is not part of the human world, but it can be connected to children's bedrooms through their closet doors. When a door is properly activated, it becomes a portal between the monster world and the human world. The city's power supply is provided by Monsters, Inc., a utility company that employs monsters to scare children and extract energy from their screams. The company has a huge warehouse full of doors, work areas called scare floors where the doors are activated, and a special training room in which employees practice their scare skills. The company's best scarer is Jamesp. Sullysullivan , whose assistant is his best friend, Michaelmikewazowski . Sulley's main rival is Randallboggs.oggs , and the company's CEO is Henryj. Waternoose III . Monstropolis is in the middle of an energy crisis because children are harder to scare than they used to be.  One day, Sullysullivan finds an activated door on his scare floor after the workday has ended. He finds no one in the room behind the door, but a little twoyearold girl  follows him back into the monster world. Far from being scared, she calls him Kitty and delights in playing with him. Since monsters believe humans are lethally toxic, Sullysullivan tries repeatedly to return the girl to her room, but she keeps following him back, and Randallboggs.oggs eventually deactivates and stores the door, leaving the girl stuck in the monster world. The girl's presence becomes public knowledge after Sullysullivan sneaks her into a restaurant to find Mikedisguiseboo, so they hide her in Sullysullivan's home while the Child Detection Agency  searches for her. Sullysullivan eventually names the girl Mikedisguiseboo. and he slowly bonds with her after realizing that she is not poisonous. He also discovers that her laughter produces even more energy than her screams.  The next morning, Sullysullivan and Mikedisguiseboo in a monster costume and sneak her into work. Randallboggs.oggs agrees to help them return her to her bedroom, but when Mikedisguiseboo enters the room, Randallboggs.oggs captures him in a box, believing he is Mikedisguiseboo. Randallboggs.oggs intends to kidnap Mikedisguiseboo and subject her to a device that extracts her screams.  What follows is a sequence of battles, chases, and mishaps in which Sullysullivan and Mikedisguiseboo attempt to protect Mikedisguiseboo from Randallboggs.oggs and his scream machine. Waternoose reveals that he is in cahoots with Randallboggs.oggs and banishes Sullysullivan and Mikedisguiseboo to the Himalayas, where they meet the Abominable Snowman , but Sullysullivan and Mikedisguiseboo return to the monster world through a village at the foot of the mountain, where Randallboggs.oggs chases them through the company's rollercoasterlike doormoving system. When the energy in Mikedisguiseboo.s laughter activates the doors in storage, the chase passes in and out of the human world. Finally, Sullysullivan and Mikedisguiseboo defeat Randallboggs. Sullysullivan throws Randallboggs.oggs through the door of a trailerpark trailer, where a woman beats Randallboggs.oggs with a shovel, and Mikedisguiseboo destroys the door to make sure Randallboggs.oggs never comes back.  Just as Sullysullivan and Mikedisguiseboo attempt to return Mikedisguiseboo to her home, Waternoose and the CDA call her door to the scare floor, ready to arrest them, but Mikedisguiseboo leads the agents away by fleeing with Mikedisguiseboo.s monster costume, and Sullysullivan escapes with Mikedisguiseboo and the door. When Waternoose follows Sullysullivan and Mikedisguiseboo. Sulley attempts to set up and activate the door, and when Waternoose follows them through the door, he tells Sullysullivan he is willing to kidnap children in order to save the company. However, Sullysullivan had not properly activated Mikedisguiseboo.s door, causing the three to actually wind up in the adjacent Monsters, Inc. training room, which is equipped with a video monitoring system. Mikedisguiseboo has recorded Waternoose's confession, and after he replays the confession, CDA agents arrest Waternoose.  With the screammachine plot foiled, the CDA agents call in their leader, who has been working undercover as Roz , the company's bookkeeper. Mikedisguiseboo says goodbye to Mikedisguiseboo and Sullysullivan returns her to her bedroom, then Roz has the door shredded, preventing monsters from ever visiting Mikedisguiseboo again. Sullysullivan keeps one of the wood splinters as a memento.  Some time later, Sullysullivan is the CEO of Monsters, Inc., and the company has ended the energy crisis with his policy of making children laugh instead of scaring them. Meanwhile, Mikedisguiseboo has collected and reassembled the pieces of Mikedisguiseboo.s shredded door. When Sullysullivan puts his piece in its place, the door is activated again, and when he peeks into Mikedisguiseboo.s room, she greets him.  The credits  or bonus features  include a series of simulated outtakes and an amateur stage performance played by Mikedisguiseboo and other Monsters, Inc. employees.