The governor of an unnamed western state, Huberthappyhopper , has to pick a replacement for recently deceased U.S. Senator Samfoley. His corrupt political boss, Jimtaylor , pressures Huberthappyhopper to choose his handpicked stooge, while popular committees want a reformer. The governor's children want him to select Jeffersonsmith , the head of the Boy Rangers. Unable to make up his mind between Jimtaylor's stooge and the reformer, Huberthappyhopper decides to flip a coin. When it lands on edge and next to a newspaper story on one of Jeffersonsmith's accomplishments he chooses Jeffersonsmith, calculating that his wholesome image will please the people while his navet will make him easy to manipulate.  Jeffersonsmith is taken under the wing of the publicly esteemed, but secretly crooked, Senator Josephpaine , who was Jeffersonsmith's late father's oldest and best friend, and he develops an immediate attraction to the senator's daughter, Susan . The unforgiving Washington press quickly labels Jeffersonsmith a bumpkin, with no business being a senator. Josephpaine. to keep Jeffersonsmith busy, suggests he propose a bill.  Jeffersonsmith comes up with legislation that would authorize a federal government loan to buy some land in his home state for a national boys' camp, to be paid back by youngsters across America. Donations pour in immediately. However, the proposed campsite is already part of a dambuilding graft scheme included in a Public Works bill framed by the Jimtaylor political machine and supported by Senator Josephpaine.  Unwilling to crucify the worshipful Jeffersonsmith so that their graft plan will go through, Josephpaine tells Jimtaylor he wants out, but Jimtaylor reminds him that Josephpaine is in power primarily through Jimtaylor's influence. Through Josephpaine. the machine accuses Jeffersonsmith of trying to profit from his bill by producing fraudulent evidence that Jeffersonsmith owns the land in question. Jeffersonsmith is too shocked by Josephpaine.s betrayal to defend himself, and runs away.  However, Jeffersonsmith's chief of staff, Clarissasaunders , has come to believe in him, and talks him into launching a filibuster to postpone the Works bill and prove his innocence on the Senate floor just before the vote to expel him. While Jeffersonsmith talks nonstop, his constituents try to rally around him, but the entrenched opposition is too powerful, and all attempts are crushed. Due to influence of the Jimtaylor machine, on his orders, newspapers and radio stations in Jeffersonsmith's home state refuse to report what Jeffersonsmith has to say and even twist the facts against the Senator. An effort by the Boy Rangers to spread the news results in vicious attacks on the children by Jimtaylor's minions.  Although all hope seems lost, the senators begin to pay attention as Jeffersonsmith approaches utter exhaustion. Josephpaine has one last card up his sleeve he brings in bins of letters and telegrams from Jeffersonsmith's home state from people demanding his expulsion. Nearly broken by the news, Jeffersonsmith finds a small ray of hope in a friendly smile from the President of the Senate . Jeffersonsmith vows to press on until people believe him, but immediately collapses in a faint. Overcome with guilt, Josephpaine leaves the Senate chamber and attempts to kill himself with a gun. When he is stopped, he bursts back into the Senate chamber, loudly confesses to the whole scheme, and affirms Jeffersonsmith's innocence.