The following synopsis has mostly been taken from the film's wikipedia page  Howardbeale , the longtime anchor of the Union Broadcasting System's UBS Evening News, learns from the news division president, Maxschumacher , that he has just two more weeks on the air because of declining ratings. The two old friends get roaring drunk and lament the state of their industry. The following night, Howardbeale announces on live television that he will commit suicide on next Tuesday's broadcast. UBS fires him after this incident, but Maxschumacher intervenes so that Howardbeale can have a dignified farewell. Howardbeale promises he will apologise for his outburst, but once on the air, he launches back into a rant claiming that life is bullshit. Howardbeale.s outburst causes the newscast's ratings to spike, and much to Maxschumacher's dismay, the upper echelons of UBS decide to exploit Howardbeale.s antics rather than pull him off the air. In one impassioned diatribe, Howardbeale galvanises the nation, persuading his viewers to shout out of their windows I'm as mad as hell, and I'm not going to take this anymore  Dianachristensen  heads the network's programming department seeking just one hit show, she cuts a deal with a band of radical terrorists  for a new docudrama series called the Mao TseTung Hour for the upcoming fall season. When Howardbeale.s ratings seem to have topped out, Dianachristensen approaches Maxschumacher and offers to help him develop the news show. He says no to the professional offer, but not to the personal one, and the two begin an affair. When Maxschumacher decides to end the Howardbeale as the Angry Man format, Dianachristensen convinces her boss, Frankhackett, to slot the evening news show under the entertainment division so she can develop it. Frankhackett agrees, bullies the UBS executives to consent, and fires Maxschumacher at the same time. Soon afterward, Howardbeale is hosting a new program called The Howardbeale Show, topbilled as the mad prophet of the airwaves. Ultimately, the show becomes the most highly rated program on television, and Howardbeale finds new celebrity preaching his angry message in front of a live studio audience that, on cue, chants Howardbeale.s signature catchphrase en masse We're as mad as hell, and we're not going to take this anymore. At first, Maxschumacher and Dianachristensen's romance withers as the show flourishes, but in the flush of high ratings, the two ultimately find their way back together, and Maxschumacher leaves his wife of over 25 years for Dianachristensen. But Dianachristensen.s fanatical devotion to her job and emotional emptiness ultimately drive Maxschumacher back to his wife, and he warns his former lover that she will selfdestruct at the pace she is running with her career. You are television incarnate, Dianachristensen, he tells her, indifferent to suffering, insensitive to joy. All of life is reduced to the common rubble of banality.  When Howardbeale discovers that Communications Corporation of America , the conglomerate that owns UBS, will be bought out by an even larger Saudi Arabian conglomerate, he launches an onscreen tirade against the deal, encouraging viewers to send telegrams to the White House telling them, I want the CCA deal stopped now This throws the top network brass into a state of panic because the company's debt load has made merger essential for survival. Frankhackett takes Howardbeale to meet with CCA chairman Arthurjensen, who explicates his own corporate cosmology to the attentive Howardbeale. Arthurjensen delivers a tirade of his own in an appropriate setting, the dramatically darkened CCA boardroom, that suggests to the docile Howardbeale that Arthurjensen may himself be some higher power describing the interrelatedness of the participants in the international economy and the illusory nature of nationality distinctions. Arthurjensen persuades Howardbeale to abandon the populist messages and preach his new evangel. But television audiences find his new sermons on the dehumanisation of society depressing, and ratings begin to slide, yet Arthurjensen will not allow UBS executives to fire Howardbeale. Seeing its twoforthepriceofone value, solving the Howardbeale problem plus sparking a boost in seasonopener ratings. Dianachristensen. Frankhackett, and the other executives decide to hire the Ecumenical Liberation Army to assassinate Howardbeale on the air. The assassination succeeds, putting an end to The Howardbeale Show and kicking off a second season of The Mao TseTung Hour.  The film ends with the narrator stating  This was the story of Howardbeale, the first known instance of a man who was killed because he had lousy ratings.