The film opens with a shot of desolate, wideopen country in West Texas in June 1980. In a voiceover, the local sheriff, Sheriffbelltommyleejones.ommyleejones Tommy Lee Jones, tells of the changing times in the old days, some sheriffs never wore guns, as did his late father, who was the sheriff before him in the modern day and age, however, Sheriffbelltommyleejones.ommyleejones once sent an unrepentant teenage boy to the electric chair who had killed a girl simply because he wanted to kill someone, had been fixin' to do it for some time, and would do it again if he had the chance.  Along a desert highway, Antonchigurhjavierbardem is arrested by a deputy Zachhopkins. They return to the empty police station, where the deputy calls Sheriffbelltommyleejones. He tells the Sheriff about an odd device in Antonchigurhjavierbardem.s possession captive bolt pistol. The deputy thinks it may be an oxygen tank, but it is actually a device used to kill cattle in the slaughter house. The deputy has his back to Antonchigurhjavierbardem. who sneaks up behind him and just as the deputy hangs up the phone, uses the handcuff chain to garrote the deputy. After cleaning himself up in the station bathroom, Antonchigurhjavierbardem steals a squad car and once on a desert highway, uses the car's lights and siren to stop a random motorist Chip Love driving a Ford sedan.  He politely asks the man to step out of the car. Antonchigurhjavierbardem then asks the man to hold still and presses the captive bolt pistol attached to the compressed air tank against the puzzled driver's forehead. He squeezes the trigger and it fires the bolt into the man's skull, killing him. Antonchigurhjavierbardem drives off in the man's car.  Elsewhere in the desert, Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin Josh Brolin is hunting pronghorns. Setting the sights of his hunting rifle on one, he fires, scattering the animals. Walking to where the herd stood, he notices a trail of blood. Realizing the pronghorn left in a different direction from the blood trail, he spies a wounded pit bull hobbling away. Retracing the dog's trail, Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin eventually comes upon several pickup trucks parked in the middle of the wilderness. Mexican criminals and pit bulls lie dead on the ground only a mortally wounded driver remains alive.  The driver begs Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin for  agua, but Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin says that he has no water. Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin asks the man where the last man standing  the winner  is, but doesn't get an answer. He carefully takes the man's submachine gun off the seat and an ammo clip from his shirt pocket. Under a tarp in the bed of one pickup, Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin sees what appears to be a great deal of heroin.  Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin tracks the only criminal to have escaped the shootout to a tree where he finds the man has died. He finds a large catalog case filled with two million dollars and a .45 caliber pistol. He takes the money and gun. He returns home where he hides the submachine gun under his mobile home. His wife Carlajeankellymacdonald Kelly Macdonald is irritated that he has been gone all day and he refuses to tell her where he found the pistol and catalog case. She asks him what's in the case but doesn't believe him when he offhandedly tells her it's full of money.  That night, Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin guiltily wakes up, deciding that he should take water to the wounded driver. He arrives around dawn and parks a short distance away on a rise. He carries a gallon of water to the scene of the shootout, but discovers that the wounded man has been killed by a shotgun round to his head.  Looking back to where he'd parked his pickup truck atop the rise, Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin dimly sees in the predawn light another truck now parked alongside his. Two men get out and appear to slash his truck's tires. He tries to hide behind under one of the trucks, but is fired upon by the men who are now approaching in their truck, using bright searchlights.  More gunmen appear, disable his truck and fire on him, hitting him in the shoulder. Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin flees with the pickup pursuing him, but is hit in the shoulder by a shotgun round just as he reaches a river embankment. As Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin tumbles towards the river with dawn breaking, the two men, apparently Mexicans, send a pit bull after him. Evading continued gunfire, Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin dives into the river and swims downstream, eventually crossing to the other side with the pit bull gaining on him. On the opposite bank, Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin frantically ejects an empty shell from the .45, reloads the gun, and kills the dog at the moment it leaps at him.  He bandages his wounds, realizing he is facing dangerous individuals. He returns home and sends Carlajeankellymacdonald to stay with her mother in Odessa while he travels separately with the money.  After filling up at a gas station in the dead man's Ford, Antonchigurhjavierbardem goes to pay for some candy from the gas proprietor Genejones. The proprietor tries to make polite conversation out of simple friendliness, but Antonchigurhjavierbardem is upset at the inane small talk, and the owner finds himself in a strange, tense confrontation. The man is genuinely perplexed by his customer's anxiety, and tries to defuse the argument by saying he needs to close the station, which only further irritates Antonchigurhjavierbardem due to it being still midday. Antonchigurhjavierbardem requires him to call the flip of coin to decide whether the man is to win everything, apparently whether the man will live or die. The clerk guesses heads and Antonchigurhjavierbardem gives the man the coin. He tells him not to mix it with any other coins.  Later that night, two welldressed men take Antonchigurhjavierbardem to the site of the failed drug deal. He removes the VIN tag from Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.s truck door and examines the corpses. The welldressed men give him a tracking device on which they said they're getting not a bleep. that he can use to find the catalog case of money, which has a transponder hidden in it, although it has not received any signals. Antonchigurhjavierbardem picks up a pistol laying next to one dead men and kills both of them.  The following morning, Sheriffbelltommyleejones.ommyleejones Tommy Lee Jones and Deputy Wendellgarretdillahunt respond to a report of a burning car, and recognize the Ford belonging to the dead motorist. They follow tire tracks to the shoot out site, where Sheriffbelltommyleejones.ommyleejones recognizes Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.s truck. He and Wendell carefully look over the scene and then decide to call in federal authorities. The heroin is gone from the back of the pickup.  Antonchigurhjavierbardem appears at Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin and Carlajeankellymacdonald's trailer and uses the captive bolt pistol to break the lock. The trailer is empty but hurriedly vacated, but he finds in the unopened mail a phone bill that reveals the couple has made a lot of calls to Odessa, TX. He tries to intimidate the trailer park manager Kathylamkin into revealing where Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin works and seems to contemplate killing her, but when he hears noise in the adjacent room, leaves.  Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin puts his wife on a bus and reassures her that he will call her in a couple of days. He takes a cab from the bus station to a motel, where he rents a room and hides the money case deep in the HVAC duct using the clothes bar from a closet. Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin leaves the hotel and buys boots and socks. Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin takes a cab back to his motel but a truck parked near his room makes him suspicious and he directs the driver to take him to another motel.  Antonchigurhjavierbardem meanwhile calls numbers on the phone bill to try to figure out where Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin is headed. He then begins driving, trying to anticipate where Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin is headed.  The next morning Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin purchases a tent for its poles, duct tape, wire cutters, and a 12 gauge shotgun and ammo at a local sporting goods store. He returns to the second hotel room, where he saws off the shotgun barrel and stock. He returns to his first hotel and rents a second room immediately behind his first room. It shares the HVAC duct with his first room. In the second room, he uses the tent poles, duct tape, and coat hangers to fashion a hook that he uses to retrieve the catalog case full of money from the HVAC duct.  Antonchigurhjavierbardem is driving past the motel when the tracking device goes off. He finds the motel, and by the frequency of its beeping he deduces which room the signal is coming from, Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.s first room. Antonchigurhjavierbardem rents a room and takes off his boots so he can quietly walk up to the room where the signal is coming from. He uses his captive bolt pistol to break into the room. Antonchigurhjavierbardem finds three Mexicans in the room and kills them with a silenced shotgun. The Mexicans' gunfire alerts Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin in the opposite room. Antonchigurhjavierbardem searches the room for the case, finally noticing the HVAC duct. He opens it to see the tracks where the case was dragged. Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin escapes into the dark with the money and hitchhikes out of the area. The driver Mathewgreer who picks him up tells him he shouldn't be hitchhiking because it's dangerous.  The next day, in a highrise office building in Dallas, a bounty hunter named Carsonwellswoodyharrelson arrives in a businessman's Stephenroot large office. The businessman is upset about the many killings perpetrated by Antonchigurhjavierbardem. He wants Carsonwellswoodyharrelson to contain the situation. Carsonwellswoodyharrelson tells the businessman that he has had past dealings with Antonchigurhjavierbardem and would know him by sight. Carsonwellswoodyharrelson also compares Antonchigurhjavierbardem to the bubonic plague and calls him a psychopathic killer. The businessman hires Carsonwellswoodyharrelson to control the situation with Antonchigurhjavierbardem and to retrieve the money.  In a border town, Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin rents a room in an older, rundown multistory hotel. Unable to sleep, he is apparently trying to figure out how Antonchigurhjavierbardem tracked him down to the previous motel. He searches the case and finds the transponder that Antonchigurhjavierbardem has been using to find him. He hears suspicious noises and calls the clerk who had checked him in at the front desk. The clerk Marcmiles had told Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin he'd be on until the next morning at 10 a.m., but he doesn't answer. He sees the shadow of feet under his door, but then the hall lights go dark. Antonchigurhjavierbardem shoots out the lock with the captive bolt pistol, hitting Llewelynmossjoshbrolin. who fires his shotgun into the door. Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin then drops the case out the second story window and follows it. Antonchigurhjavierbardem shoots at him from the window but misses. Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin is wounded in the side by the door lock.  Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin stops a pickup truck driver Lucerains and tells him to drive him out of there, but Antonchigurhjavierbardem kills the driver. Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin ducks down and drives the truck around a corner, crashing into a vehicle. He hides behind a nearby car, watching in a store window for whoever is following him. He shoots and wounds Antonchigurhjavierbardem. Wounded himself, Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin drives the pickup to the nearby Rio Grande where he buys a jacket from some passing youths on the border bridge, and he also tosses the money case into some brush along the bank. He covers his bloody shirt with the jacket and, posing as a drunk Mexican waves the bottle of beer drunkenly at the halfsleeping Mexican border guard as he stumbles past to cross over into Mexico the sleepy guard is unconcerned with his identity. In the morning he is wakened by members of a Norteo Band who he pays to take him to a hospital.  Sheriffbelltommyleejones.ommyleejones continues to be disturbed by what he saw in the desert and the apparently deteriorating state of morals in the world. He goes to visit Carlajeankellymacdonald in Odessa and asks her to put him in touch with her husband. Almost absentmindedly, he tells her how a local farmer was nearly killed by an animal he was trying to slaughter, and how slaughterhouses now used compressed air guns to kill cattle immediately. In the border town, Antonchigurhjavierbardem. wounded in the thigh by a buckshot round, sets a car on fire as a diversion and nonchalantly steals medical supplies. In a motel room, he cuts off his pants and treats his wound.  Carsonwellswoodyharrelson visits Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin in the Mexican hospital and suggests that he just hand over the money so Carsonwellswoodyharrelson can protect him. Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin refuses and Carsonwellswoodyharrelson tells him in which hotel he is staying. On the way back across the border, Carsonwellswoodyharrelson sees the catalog case from the bridge. Back at his hotel, the same one at which Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin was staying, Carsonwellswoodyharrelson is confronted by Antonchigurhjavierbardem. Carsonwellswoodyharrelson tries to strike a deal with Antonchigurhjavierbardem for his life but when the phone rings, Antonchigurhjavierbardem kills him. Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin is on the phone, and Antonchigurhjavierbardem tells him that if he brings him the money, he won't kill his wife, though he can't do the same for Llewelynmossjoshbrolin. Antonchigurhjavierbardem lets Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin know that he knows exactly where he is and, instead of coming to kill him in the hospital, he is going to go to Carlajeankellymacdonald's mother's house. Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin tells Antonchigurhjavierbardem he will kill him then hangs up.  Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin leaves the hospital and retrieves the case. He calls Carlajeankellymacdonald at her mother's in Odessa and tells her to fly to El Paso to meet him. Antonchigurhjavierbardem meanwhile goes to Dallas where he kills the businessman for hiring not only Carsonwellswoodyharrelson but the Mexicans as well. His truck breaks down and a chicken farmer Chriswarner with a flatbed full of chicken cages stops to help. Antonchigurhjavierbardem asks where the nearest airport is. The farmer names El Paso, and Antonchigurhjavierbardem asks him if the chicken cages can be removed from the truck. Sometime later he is washing the chicken feathers off the back of the truck at a car wash.  The Mexicans who have been watching Carlajeankellymacdonald in Odessa follow her and her mother Bethgrant to the airport. One of the Mexicans helps her mother with her luggage and she tells him she and Carlajeankellymacdonald are going to El Paso. In the airport, Carlajeankellymacdonald calls Sheriffbelltommyleejones.ommyleejones and tells him where Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin is staying in El Paso. At the hotel, a woman Anareeder sunbathing by the pool flirts with Llewelynmossjoshbrolin. She invites him to her room for beer, but he says that he's married and that he knows what beer leads to, and declines her offer.  Sheriffbelltommyleejones.ommyleejones is driving up to Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.s motel when he hears automatic gunfire and sees a pickup truck speeding off. At the motel, Sheriffbelltommyleejones.ommyleejones sees a large number of empty shell casings on the ground by the pool, where a woman is floating dead. He then sees Llewelynmossjoshbrolin.oshbrolin dead in the open doorway of his room. The money case is missing.  All Sheriffbelltommyleejones.ommyleejones can do is comfort Carlajeankellymacdonald when she arrives. Later that night, Sheriffbelltommyleejones.ommyleejones and the local sheriff Rodgerboyce have coffee and bemoan the declining morals of American society. Afterward, Sheriffbelltommyleejones.ommyleejones returns to the motel and nearly misses being killed by Antonchigurhjavierbardem who had been searching the room for the money case.  Sheriffbelltommyleejones.ommyleejones visits his uncle, Ellisbarrycorbin to tell him he's retiring because he is too disturbed by the violence he's seen. Ellisbarrycorbin tells him he's being vain and relates the story about how Sheriffbelltommyleejones.s grandfather had died shot by 8 outlaws, he bled to death in his wife's arms on his front porch as they watched. Meanwhile, Antonchigurhjavierbardem visits Carlajeankellymacdonald, who has just buried her mother. She understands why he's there but still finds it meaningless. Antonchigurhjavierbardem flips a coin but Carlajeankellymacdonald refuses to play his game. Carlajeankellymacdonald dismisses Antonchigurhjavierbardem.s game, saying that he's the one who decides on whether or not to kill her, not the coin. He is unmoved, however, insisting on his lack of a free choice in the matter. During this exchange, we see two boys ride past the house on bicycles. Antonchigurhjavierbardem leaves the house and stops to check his boots, apparently for blood.  Driving off, he is looking at the same two boys in the rear view mirror when he's struck broadside by a car speeding through the intersection. Antonchigurhjavierbardem gets out of his car, his arm bone protruding out of his elbow. The two neighborhood boys come up to him to see if he's all right. Antonchigurhjavierbardem pays one of the kids for his shirt, which he uses to make a sling for his arm, and he asks them to tell the authorities that he had already left. Antonchigurhjavierbardem limps away down the street.  At Sheriffbelltommyleejones.s house, the sheriff ponders what to do for the day at breakfast with his wife, Lorettatessharper he is restless in retirement, but she rebuffs his offer to help out around the house, as he will just throw off her established routine. He recounts a dream he had about his sheriff father. Sheriffbelltommyleejones.ommyleejones dreamed that he and his father were riding a mountain pass in the night. His father, carrying a horn with embers inside that glowed like moonlight, rode ahead into the darkness and disappeared. Though he couldn't see anything in the dark night, Sheriffbelltommyleejones.ommyleejones dreamed that he kept riding forward since his father would have a warm fire waiting for him.