At the end of an ordinary work day, advertising executive Rogero.. Rogerthornhill.arygrant hurries from a Madison Avenue office building to a business meeting at the Oak Room bar of the Plaza Hotel. After asking his secretary to phone his mother, he realizes that she won't be able to reach her by telephone, so he will need to send a telegram instead. When a hotel pageboy passes by calling for a Mr. Georgekaplan, Rogerthornhill flags him down, to inquire about sending a telegram. Unfortunately, this also draws the attention of two henchmen, names Valerianadamwilliams and Lichtrobertellenstein, who mistake Rogero. for Georgekaplan because from the vantage point they are standing at, he appears to be answering the page. As Rogero. steps into the corridor to send his wire, the henchmen abduct Rogero. at gunpoint and force him into a waiting car.  Wordlessly, they drive him out of Manhattan to a Long Island country estate displaying the name Lestertownsendphilipober.hilipober at its entrance. The car snakes up a long winding driveway to the front entrance. A maid lets them in the front door, and Rogero. is locked inside the library of the mansion. Left alone, he finds a newspaper on the desk addressed to Mr. Lestertownsendphilipober. 169 Baywood, Glencove, N.Y.  Shortly, the library door opens and there enters an urbane Englishaccented gentleman Jamesmason, evidently none other than Lestertownsendphilipober.hilipober himself, followed soon after by his personal secretary, Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau. The gentleman addresses his captive as Georgekaplan. and by his questions, Rogero. can only assume that the real Georgekaplan must be some sort of secret agent on this man's trail. Rogero. tries to convince him that his name is Rogerthornhill and has never been anything else, but his skeptic captor will not hear of it. To prove his point, the man proceeds to recite the elusive Georgekaplan.s recent itinerary of hotels, cities, and everchanging hometowns, including Georgekaplan.s present occupancy of room 796 at the Plaza Hotel, and his future stops in the next few days in Chicago and Rapid City, South Dakota. To find out how much Georgekaplan knows about his organization and their current arrangements, he puts Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau in charge of extracting the information while he withdraws to join Mrs. Lestertownsendphilipober.osephinehutchinson and their party guests. Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau unseals a fifth of bourbon taken from a liquor cabinet, and with the aid of Valerian and Licht, he begins to force the whiskey down Rogero.s throat.  Having failed to get any information from their victim, Valerian and Licht place the severely intoxicated Rogerthornhill behind the wheel of a Mercedes on a seaside highway under cover of darkness, planning to guide him off of a cliff to his death. Almost unaware of his surroundings, Rogero. comes sufficiently alert at the last moment to push Valerian out of the car and start driving for himself. The two thugs follow him down the winding highway in their own car. Rogero. on the verge of passing out and plagued with double vision, manages to careen his way down the cliffside highway without hitting anything. As he slams on brakes to barely avoid running over a bicyclist, a pursuing police car plows into the rear of the Mercedes, and a third car plows into the rear of the police car. Finding themselves overmatched, the two henchmen drive away leaving Rogero. in police custody.  Rogero. tells everyone at the police station how his captors had tried to kill him, but in his drunken condition no one pays any attention to his bizarre story. One of the policemen mentions that the Mercedes Rogero. was driving was reported stolen. Rogero. phones his mother to let her know he is at the Glencove police station for the night. In the morning, Rogero. and his attorney Larrabeeedwardplatt face the judge, with Rogero.s mother, Clarathornhilljessieroycelandis, looking on in weary bemusement. The judge gives Rogero. a chance to prove his doubtful story, and continues the case over to the next day.  A pair of county detectives accompanies Rogero. his mother, and Larrabeeedwardplatt to the house where he says last night's events took place. They are escorted into the same library while the same maid goes for Mrs. Lestertownsendphilipober. Rogero. shows them the sofa which should still be stained and soaked with spilled bourbon, but it has apparently been cleaned. He opens the liquor cabinet, only to find it is full of books. When Mrs. Lestertownsendphilipober.hilipober comes in, she greets Rogero. like an old friend, and asks if he had gotten home all right. She says that he had been so drunk when he left their party the night before, that they had all been worried about him. When Captain Junketedwardbinns mentions the stolen car registered to a Mrs. Babson, Mrs. Lestertownsendphilipober.hilipober asks, You didn't borrow Laura's Mercedes Rogero. suggests that they question her husband. Mrs. Lestertownsendphilipober.hilipober informs them that he is at the United Nations where he will be addressing the General Assembly that afternoon. As his protests continue to fall on deaf ears, his mother chimes in, Rogero. pay the two dollars The visitors get back into the car and drive away. Behind them, a gardener looks up from his work. It is Valerian, disguised.  Rogero. and his mother take a cab to the Plaza Hotel, where Rogero. tries to phone Georgekaplan.s room. But he learns that Georgekaplan hasn't answered his phone in two days. Rogero. cajoles his mother into getting the key to room 796 from the front desk. They go upstairs and into Georgekaplan.s room. Both the chambermaid and the valet treat him as Georgekaplan. since he's the man in room 796 whom they have never actually seen. Rogero. finds a photo of his host from the evening before, which he slips into his pocket. The phone rings. Rogero. answers it and hears the familiar voice of one of his recent captors. He then calls the hotel operator and learns that the call originated inside the hotel.  Rogero. hurries his mother out of the room, and as they enter an elevator going down, Valerian and Licht step out of one coming up just in time to join the crowded group of passengers in the down elevator. To cut the tension on the way down, Mrs. Rogerthornhill asks the two men if they are really going to kill her son. The thugs start laughing and gradually everyone in the car  joins in. When the doors open, Rogero. insists, Ladies first. And under cover of escorting the ladies off the car, he manages to elude his pursuers and escape into the street. He jumps into a cab and asks the driver take him to the United Nations. Seeing the thugs following him, he asks the driver to lose them if he can.  When he gets to the U.N. General Assembly Building, Rogero. asks for Lestertownsendphilipober. giving his own name as Georgekaplan. He is told to go to the public lounge where the attendant can page Mr. Lestertownsendphilipober.hilipober for him. Meanwhile, Valerian steps out of another taxi and tells Licht to wait with the cab on the other side of the building for him. Valerian then walks into the General Assembly Building. When Lestertownsendphilipober.hilipober answers the page, he is not the same man Rogero. had seen the evening before. Rogero. asks him about the house in Glencove, which Lestertownsendphilipober.hilipober says is his, but the house is currently locked up with only the gardener and his wife living on the grounds . Lestertownsendphilipober.hilipober says that he always stays in the city when the General Assembly is in session. Rogero. asks about Mrs. Lestertownsendphilipober.hilipober and learns that she has been dead for many years. As Rogero. shows him the picture of his captor, Lestertownsendphilipober.hilipober flinches and begins to collapse. Valerian has thrown a knife across the lounge and flees unnoticed, and Lestertownsendphilipober.hilipober falls dead at Rogero.s feet. Reflexively, Rogero. pulls the knife out of Lestertownsendphilipober.s back just as people begin to look at the commotion, and a photographer's light bulb goes off. It appears to everyone around him that Rogero. has killed the real Lestertownsendphilipober.oger drops the knife, bolts to the exit and jumps into a taxicab.  The next morning, the action changes to inside the boardroom of a government intelligence agency in Washington D.C. where a group of planners remark about the photo of U.N murderer Rogero.hornhill on the front page of a newspaper. They consider how to deal with the sudden appearance of a man who has been mistaken for the nonexistent Georgekaplan. It is revealed that these agents invented a nonexistent agent named Georgekaplan as a decoy for their real agent who has infiltrated an enemy group headed by a man named Phillipvandamm. They've succeeded in making Phillipvandamm believe that their phantom Georgekaplan is the real agent, by creating a trail of hotel registrations complete with prop clothing and other personal belongings moved in and out of the various hotel rooms by fellow agents. And now Phillipvandamm has somehow mistaken Rogerthornhill for Georgekaplan. The intelligence chief, a middleaged gentleman called the Professor Leog. Carroll suggests that the agency do nothing to help Rogerthornhill. If they try to help him, they risk exposing their real agent who would probably be killed. For the time being, they will simply wait and let this reallife Georgekaplan  lend credibility to their invented Georgekaplan.  Meanwhile back in New York, Rogero. calls his mother from Grand Central Station to tell her he's taking the train to Chicago. He has learned that Georgekaplan checked out of the Plaza and has gone on to the Ambassador East in Chicago, so Rogero. is following him there to find out what is going on. He tries to buy a ticket on the 20th Century Limited, but the ticket agent recognizes him and quietly calls security. Rogero. slips away unseen, makes his way to the platform, and boards the 20th Century Limited without a ticket, closely pursued by police. Colliding with a beautiful young woman Evamariesaint in the train corridor, he ducks into a nearby compartment as the police appear at the other end of the corridor. The woman misdirects the police off of the train as it gets underway.  As time passes, Rogero. manages to elude the conductors while they tally up the passenger count. Then he makes his way to the dining car, where the steward seats him with the same beautiful young woman who had helped him in the corridor earlier. She introduces herself as Evekendall.endall. He gives her a false name, but she answers No. You're Rogero.hornhill of Madison Avenue, and you're wanted for murder on every front page in America. Don't be so modest. But she assures him she won't turn him in, since it's going to be a long night and she doesn't particularly like the book she's started. He lights her cigarette from his personally monogrammed ROT matchbook. Rogero.. Rogerthornhill. What does the 'O' stand for she asks. He tells her, Nothing. When he admits he doesn't have a ticket, she invites him to share her drawing room, just as the train comes to an unscheduled stop. Two men in plain clothes get out of a police car and board the train. Rogero. and Evekendall.endall leave the dining car to make their way to her compartment.  Presently, Evekendall.endall is lying on the lower berth while Rogero. talks to her from his hiding place in the closed upper berth. A knock comes at the door, and the two police detectives enter and question her about the man she was talking with at dinner. She deflects their questions, saying she'd never seen him before, and that they hadn't talked about anything important. They leave to continue their search. Using a key she had stolen earlier from a porter, Evekendall.endall opens the upper berth to let Rogero.ut.  As the evening progresses, Rogero. and Evekendall.endall become very close very quickly, falling in love in spite of not knowing much about each other. A buzz at the door announces the porter, who is ready to make Evekendall.s bed for her. Rogero. hides in the washroom while the porter is there, and Evekendall.endall returns the berth key to the porter, telling him that she had found it on the floor. The porter leaves. Since there's only one bed, Evekendall.endall insists that Rogero. is going to sleep on the floor as they return to their interrupted embrace.  In another part of the train, the porter delivers a note into the hand of Leonardmartinlandau. who passes it to his boss. The note reads, What do I do with him in the morning Evekendall.  In the morning, Evekendall.endall and Rogero. get off the train in Chicago with Rogero. dressed in a redcap's uniform and carrying her luggage. He walks ahead as the two police detectives stop and ask if she has anything to report. She doesn't, and she rejoins Rogero. She is also aware of Phillipvandamm and Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau walking a short ways behind. She tells Rogero. to change back into his suit which she's hidden on one of her cases, while she calls Georgekaplan for him.  The police soon discover a redcap who is missing his uniform, and they begin to examine every redcap porter in the station trying to find Rogerthornhill. Rogero. ducks into the men's room, quickly changes, and starts to shave with a very tiny travel razor from the train's washroom. The police walk right past him, not recognizing him through the shaving cream on his face.  Meanwhile, Evekendall.endall in a phone booth is making notes, while in another booth several booths away Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau is giving instructions into the phone. Evekendall.endall and Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau leave their booths at the same time, taking no notice of each other. When Rogero. joins her, she says that Georgekaplan wants him to take the Indianapolis bus and to get off at a stop known as Prairie Stop, where Georgekaplan will meet him at 330 p.m He asks how he can find her again later. Evekendall. for some reason, is clearly nervous. She looks toward an empty doorway and tells him, They're coming He hurries away.  That afternoon, Rogero. steps off the bus in the midst of a vast open prairie and begins to wait. An occasional car or truck drives by, with long empty intervals between them. Looking around, Rogero. notices a nearby corn field, and a crop duster at work in the distance. And still he waits. A man gets out of a car on the opposite side of the road. Thinking he might be Georgekaplan. Rogero. approaches. But the man is just waiting for the next bus. The man comments on the crop duster, observing that it seems to be dusting where there aren't any crops.  After the man gets on the next bus, Rogero. is left alone again. The crop dusting plane approaches, swooping low over Rogero.s position. It comes around and approaches again, strafing the ground with machine gun fire. Rogero. tries to flag down a car, but it doesn't stop. The plane strafes again, and Rogero. runs into the corn field, hiding among the tall stalks. The plane's first pass over the field accomplishes nothing, and Rogero. begins to think he's eluded them. On its next pass the plane drops pesticide over the field. Gasping for breath, Rogero. has to abandon the cover of the corn stalks. He sees a gasoline tanker truck approaching, and he stands in its way forcing it to stop, which it does barely in time, knocking him to the ground unhurt. The tanker's quick stop presents a sudden obstacle to the lowswooping plane, and it flies headlong into the load of gasoline, bursting into flames. Rogero. and the drivers flee the truck moments before the second gas tank explodes. Some passersbys stop to view the accident scene, and Rogero. steals a pickup truck from one of them and drives away. The stolen pickup is next seen that evening parked on a Chicago street.  Rogero. inquires at the front desk of the Ambassador East Hotel for Georgekaplan's room number, only to learn that Georgekaplan had checked out that morning at 710 a.m., leaving a forwarding address for the Hotel SheratonJohnson in Rapid City, South Dakota. Rogero. can't understand how he could have gotten the message that morning at 910 a.m. if Georgekaplan had already left. Standing in confusion for a moment, Rogero. spots, of all people, Evekendall.endall entering the lobby. She picks up a newspaper and takes the elevator to the fourth floor. Rogero. tells the desk clerk that Evekendall.endall is expecting him in room 4somethingorother, he can't remember the whole number. The clerk tells him 463.  Rogero. rings the buzzer at room 463, and is admitted by a surprised Evekendall. She runs into his arms, apparently happy to see him alive, but he keeps his barriers up. Rogero. also notices a newspaper detailing the crop dust plane crash into the tanker truck killing both men aboard the plane. Rogero. plans to stick with Evekendall.endall and not let her out of his sight, but Evekendall.endall says that she has plans of her own. The phone rings. Evekendall.endall tells the caller that she will meet them, jotting an address on a memo pad. She tears off the note and places it into her purse, where she also carries a small handgun. Rogero. insists on having dinner with her, but she tells him to leave and never see her again. Last night was all there was, they're not going to get involved. He keeps insisting that they have dinner first. She gives in, on the condition that he have the hotel valet clean up his dusty suit. Rogero. goes into the bathroom to shower, and he passes his trousers out to her. The valet takes his suit away. Then Evekendall.endall slips away, not knowing that Rogero. was faking the shower and was watching her. He uses a pencil to shade over the impressions on the top blank sheet of the memo pad, revealing the address she had jotted down as 1212 N. Michigan.  A few hours later, wearing his own suit again, Rogero. steps out of a taxi at 1212 N. Michigan to find an art auction underway in the gallery at that address. In the crowd, Evekendall.endall sits under the attentive and watchful eye of Rogero.s recent captor, the false Lestertownsendphilipober. with Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau standing close by. Lestertownsendphilipober.andamm puts his hand on Evekendall.s shoulder, apparently as a clear sign of affection, and he smiles at her while she smiles back. Consumed by anger and jealousy, Rogero. approaches the trio, and his accusatory tone causes the suspicious Lestertownsendphilipober.hilipober to draw away from Evekendall. She becomes alarmed. Just then an unusual primitive figurine goes up for sale. Lestertownsendphilipober.hilipober bids on the sculpted figure, and when he wins the sale, Rogero. learns that his name is Phillipvandamm. By now, Phillipvandamm has had enough of Georgekaplan. and he tells Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau to finish him off who walks off. This whole scene is observed by the Professor who is lurking in the crowd. Rogero. starts to leave, but Valerian blocks his way at the main entrance, while Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau blocks the front stage.    As Phillipvandamm and Evekendall.endall make their exit, Rogero. is trapped and must wait behind in the crowd. To manufacture an escape, Rogero. begins to disrupt the auction, bidding wildly and making rude remarks about the art work. When the police finally arrive, Rogero. starts a fight with a gallery employee to provoke an arrest. Phillipvandamm.s men can do nothing as the police lead him away. As they leave, the Professor makes a quick phone call. When Rogero. identifies himself as the United Nations killer on their way downtown, the policemen call the station for instructions. They are told to take him to the airport instead of police headquarters.  At the Northwest Airlines counter, the Professor arrives and takes Rogerthornhill off the policemen's hands, and leads him out onto the tarmac to catch a plane to Rapid City, SD, near Mt. Rushmore. The Professor explains that Phillipvandamm has a house near Mt. Rushmore, and they think that will be his jumping off point to leave the country the following night. He explains that Georgekaplan does not exist, but that he and his associates in Washington need for Rogero. to continue to play the role of Georgekaplan for the next 24 hours, to assure Phillipvandamm that everything is all right. They want Phillipvandamm to continue on his journey so that they can learn more about his spy organization overseas and his dealings with smuggling government secrets in and out of the USA. Rogero. learns that Evekendall.endall is the government's undercover agent, and that the scene Rogero. made at the art auction has put her life in jeopardy. Rogero.s harsh words, and Evekendall.s candid reactions, had made it obvious to Phillipvandamm that his mistress is emotionally involved with a man he believes to be a government agent. For Evekendall.s sake, Rogero. agrees to cooperate with the Professor to help set things right again.  A meeting is set up between Georgekaplan and Phillipvandamm in the cafeteria of the Mt. Rushmore Visitors Center. While the Professor stands hidden in the background, Phillipvandamm arrives with Evekendall.endall and Leonardmartinlandau. In exchange for not revealing Phillipvandamm.s plans to leave the country that night, Rogero. asks Phillipvandamm to give Evekendall.endall over to him so that she can get what's coming to her. Phillipvandamm reluctantly agrees. When Rogero. takes hold of Evekendall. she draws the handgun from her purse, shoots Rogero. and runs away. The Professor emerges from the crowd, examines Rogero. and shakes his head regretfully. Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau prompts Phillipvandamm to leave before the authorities arrive. Park employees carry Rogero.ut on a stretcher, and the Professor has him loaded into a Park Service vehicle. They drive away.  The Park Service vehicle stops in a secluded wood where a very healthy Rogero. steps out to find Evekendall.endall waiting for him. She had asked for this meeting so that they can clear the air. Evekendall.endall tells him that she had met Phillipvandamm some time ago at a party and fallen in love with him. Then the Professor had contacted her and told her Phillipvandamm.s sordid secrets, asking her to use her unique relationship with Phillipvandamm to help the government, the first time anyone had ever asked Evekendall.endall to do anything important. Rogero. is glad that it will all be over when Phillipvandamm takes off that night, and he and Evekendall.endall can go on with their lives. But she and the Professor tell him that she will be going away with Phillipvandamm. because they still need her to find out more information about him. Rogero. doesn't want to let her go, and he tries to hold her back forcibly. But the Professor's driver knocks him down, and Evekendall.endall drives away to return to Phillipvandamm.s house.  That evening, Rogero. finds himself locked in a hospital room wearing next to nothing. The Professor brings in a change of clothes for him to use for the next few days on his stay in the hospital. Rogero. asks the Professor if he could have some bourbon to help ease his stay, and agreeably the Professor leaves to fetch the bourbon. Rogero. quickly finishes dressing, climbs out the window and along a ledge, making his escape through the neighboring hospital room.  He makes his way to Phillipvandamm.s house, where he sees lights flashing at a nearby landing strip as if someone is signaling an incoming plane. From outside the living room window, he overhears Phillipvandamm reassuring Evekendall.endall that everything is all right, and that the plane is about ten minutes away. Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau asks to have a parting talk with Phillipvandamm in private. Evekendall.endall goes upstairs to get her things. Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau notes that even though Evekendall.s actions that afternoon had dispelled Phillipvandamm.s doubts, he still doesn't trust her enough to tell her that the figurine they bought at the auction in Chicago holds a bellyful of microfilm. Leonardmartinlandau.s suspicions had been aroused by the scene at the Visitors Center. To prove his point, Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau aims Evekendall.s gun at Phillipvandamm and fires. But Phillipvandamm finds himself unhurt, just as Georgekaplan must have been unhurt, because the gun is loaded with blanks. Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau had searched Evekendall.s luggage and found it and immediately knew it was a fake shooting. Not appreciating this cruel revelation from Leonardmartinlandau. Phillipvandamm punches him in the face. But Phillipvandamm quickly regains his composure and knows for certain now that Evekendall.endall has betrayed him, and that she is working with Georgekaplan. He tells Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau that the solution to this is simple he will drop her from the plane over the ocean.  Rogero. has to warn Evekendall. He climbs up to her balcony just as she leaves her room and returns downstairs. He jots a note inside the cover of his monogrammed matchbook saying, They're onto you. I'm in your room. From the upper landing, he tosses the matchbook down to her. It lands on the floor. She doesn't see it. Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau comes over to speak to her, and he picks up the matchbook, tossing it onto the coffee table as he walks away, not realizing its origins. Then Evekendall.endall recognizes it and reads the message. She makes an excuse and comes upstairs again.  Rogero. warns her that Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau found the gun with the blanks, that they plan to do away with her, and that the figure from the auction is filled with microfilm. Rogero. begs her not to get on that plane, but dutifully she goes downstairs again. The entourage leaves for the plane, and only the housekeeper, Annanoramarlowe, remains downstairs. Rogero. tries to slip out through the house, but the maid Anna stops him at gunpoint. She tells him that after the plane leaves with Phillipvandamm. Valerian , as well as Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau will return.  At the landing strip, Evekendall.endall is wavering about whether to get on the plane or not. As Phillipvandamm gives his goodbyes to Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau and Valerian, he also tells them to say goodbye to his sister back in New York . Suddenly, shots ring out at the house, and as everyone turns to see Rogero. fleeing the house, Evekendall.endall grabs the figure out of Phillipvandamm.s arms and runs away into the darkness toward Rogero. He has driven a car from the house toward the plane, and Evekendall.endall jumps into the car. They speed away. Valerian and Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau give chase on foot. Rogero. explains it took him five minutes to realize the housekeeper had been covering him with that same gun filled with blanks.  They stop at the front gate, which is now closed and locked. Abandoning the car, they run into the dark woods. Before long they find themselves at the top of the Mt. Rushmore monument, with Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau and Valerian in hot pursuit. Seeing no other way out, they start climbing down the stone faces. Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau and Valerian split up and start climbing down after them.  Pausing for breath, Rogero. suggests that if they get out of this alive, that they go back on the train together. Evekendall.endall asks if that was a proposition. Rogero. tells her it was a proposal. When Evekendall.endall asks what had happened to Rogero.s first two marriages, he tells her his wives had left him because he led too dull a life. The two thugs keep coming at them from two sides, and they all continue climbing down.  As Rogero. and Evekendall.endall come around an outcropping, they are surprised by Valerian waiting with a drawn knife. He pounces on Rogero. and the two of them tussle until Rogero. manages to kick him away. Valerian plunges to his death.  In the meantime, Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau has caught up with Evekendall.endall and is trying to wrest the figurine out of her hands. He gets the statuette away, and pushes her over a ledge. She falls a few feet and manages to grab onto another ledge with her fingertips. Rogero. comes to help her. He reaches her and takes hold of her wrist, but he can't pull her up. Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau comes to the ledge just above him. Rogero. pleads with Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau to help them. Instead of helping, Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau steps on Rogero.s fingers. Just then a shot rings out. Leonardmartinlandau.artinlandau drops the figure which shatters, revealing the hidden microfilm. He falls into the depths, already dead.  On the summit, the Professor and the captive Phillipvandamm stand with a group of park rangers. One of the rangers puts away his gun.  Now the only way for Rogero. to save Evekendall.endall is to pull her up on his own. As he finally succeeds in lifting her up, the scene changes to a Pullman compartment, and Rogero. is lifting his bride into the upper berth. The honeymooners embrace as the train enters a tunnel.