Terryyou.alloy  once dreamt of being a great prize fighter, but now works at the docks of Johnnyfriendly.riendly  , the corrupt boss of the dockers union. He witnesses a murder by a couple of Johnnyfriendly.s thugs, but won't betray Friendly, who is both his brother's  boss and a longtime friend of his family.  What he sees at the docks repulses Terryyou. In an economically depressed environment in which many are out of work, more gather by the docks each morning hoping to secure work for that day than can be hired, placing Johnnyfriendly.riendly and his forces in a position to exploit them. Those who complain of the working conditions or wages one day don't work the next day, or are placed in harm's way. Consequently, most tolerate being abused.  After befriending both the sister  of the murdered man and the local priest , Terryyou.ou gradually becomes a man of deeper morality, and starts to speak of acts against Friendly, who will soon go on trial. Terryyou.ou finds his breaking point when his brother is murdered by Friendly's thugs, and causes him to entertain thoughts of testifying against Friendly. Still, he struggles to find the courage to do so, until the priest persuades him to.  Once he betrays Friendly, Terryyou.ou is without the work that always came his way when he and his brother were trusted and valued associates. Still, he confronts Friendly by the docks and when all the dock workers are witness to the brutal beating of Terryyou.ou by Friendly, they refuse to work unless Terryyou.ou is also allowed to work. This is the catalyst for a new tone of understanding between the workers and the dock bosses.  Terryyou.ou had neither wanted nor intended to be a hero, but, as a man of principle, he had become not only a hero, but a symbol of the workers' intolerance of exploitation by the dock bosses.    Terryyou.alloy, a former boxer, works as a stevedore on the urban waterfront near New York City. When the story opens, he's leaving the officeshack of Johnnyfriendly.riendly, the head of the local dockworker's union. Johnnyfriendly.riendly tells Terryyou.ou take it from here, Slugger. Terryyou.ou goes to the tenement of Joeydoyle.oyle, another dock worker and calls him out, saying that he recovered one of Joeydoyle.s carrier pigeons. Joeydoyle.oyle cautiously accepts and tells Terryyou.ou to meet him on the roof of the tenement. Terryyou.ou looks up and sees two shady men waiting on the roof.  Terryyou.ou goes to Friendly's bar and stands outside with two of Friendly's enforcers, Truck and Tillio. Truck asks him if Evedoyle went to the roof and Terryyou.ou tells him he did. A moment later, a scream is heard and Joeydoyle.oyle falls from the roof. Though everyone seems to accept that Joeydoyle.oyle simply slipped and fell, everyone also knows that he was murdered on orders from Friendly because Evedoyle had planned to testify to the Waterfront Crime Commission about unsafe and unfair working conditions in Friendly's local union. Terryyou.ou himself seems upset that a nice kid like Joeydoyle. who was wellliked in the neighborhood, would be killed by Johnnyfriendly.s men when he believed they would simply intimidate him into forgetting about his testimony. Truck and Tillio laugh over Evedoyle's death, calling him a canary   In the bar, Terryyou.ou is still upset. One of Friendly's cronies, Skins, drops by with money for Johnnyfriendly.riendly from a payoff and, when the money is counted, he comes up short. Johnnyfriendly.riendly viciously searches the man and comes up with the missing money and forcibly throws the man out. When he sees that Terryyou.ou is upset, he begins to lecture him on how violence is necessary to enforce his rules and keep everyone in line. Johnnyfriendly.riendly also admits to ordering Evedoyle's murder. For setting Evedoyle up, Johnnyfriendly.riendly tells his foreman, Big Mac, to give Terryyou.ou a cushy job during the next day's shift at his pier.  Out in the alley where Joeydoyle.oyle was thrown off the roof his sister, Edie, and Fatherbarry, the local Catholic priest, look over the body of Joeydoyle. Edie angrily pleads with other people in the neighborhood about why Joeydoyle. wellliked by his friends and the local kids, would be murdered. Everyone knows, but none want to say anything. Edie also becomes angry with Fatherbarry, saying he doesn't know about the violence in the area because he's too busy with running his church to actually visit the waterfront.  The next day, the dockworkers gather at Johnnyfriendly.riendly's pier. Big Mac runs a shapeup system where tags are given to selected men to work the ship. Edie is there, with Fatherbarry, who tells her that she was right he has come down to see just how bad the situation is. Edie's father, Popdoyle, also shows up because he needs to earn money for his son's funeral. He also gives his dead son's coat to another worker, Kayodugan, who accepts it.  While waiting for his name to be called, Terryyou.ou is approached by two officials from the Waterfront Crime Commission. One of them recognizes Terryyou.ou from his boxing days and asks him if he'll testify to the commission about Joeydoyle.s murder. Terryyou.ou flatly refuses. The other man tells Terryyou.ou they'll supoena him if necessary.  Mac calls out the names of men who get regular work, and Terryyou.ou is among them. The remaining tags are passed out at Mac's discretion when the men who aren't chosen become angry with him, Mac throws the tags behind them and a minor riot breaks out. Pop is pushed out of the crowd by the younger men. When Edie tries to grab a tag for her father, Terryyou.ou grabs it first and won't give it to Edie. When one of the other men points out to Terryyou.ou that she's Joeydoyle.s sister, he gives her the tag. Edie gives it to her father Pop admonishes Fatherbarry for letting Edie witness the riot. The other men are disheartened and Fatherbarry tells them that no union would ever let what just occurred happen. The men explain how a trigger local works anyone who gets out of line is eliminated by Johnnyfriendly.riendly and his goons. They also explain that meetings among union members are impossible since Johnnyfriendly.riendly has spies working everywhere. Fatherbarry suggests they all meet in the basement of his church.  In the ship's hold, Terryyou.ou is loafing on a pile of sacks when his brother, Charley The Gent, Johnnyfriendly.s righthand man, finds him and gives him a small job to do. Johnnyfriendly.riendly wants Terryyou.ou to be a spy during the meeting Fatherbarry called that night at the church. Terryyou.ou is reluctant but Charley reminds him that he and Johnnyfriendly.riendly have done a lot of favors for Terryyou. Terryyou.ou agrees to go.  At the church that night, Fatherbarry calls the meeting to order, noting that attendance is very low. He explains to the men what they already know working conditions are bad and their union is powerless as long as it's run by Friendly's gang. Fatherbarry also suggests that if they can talk openly about why Joeydoyle.oyle was murdered then they'll make progress. Edie asks Joeydoyle.s best friend, Jimmy, to say something, but he turns her down. Fatherbarry tells them that they only way they'll be able to make better lives for themselves is to stand up to Johnnyfriendly. One of the tougher men in the crowd, Kayodugan, tells Fatherbarry that the rule is everyone is deaf and dumb about Johnnyfriendly. Kodugan also notices that Terryyou.ou is sitting in one of the back pews and recognizes him as a spy. Despite his attempts at coaching, Fatherbarry is unable to convince the men. As Fatherbarry's fellow priest calls the meeting to an end with a prayer, a window is suddenly smashed in and the rattling of pounding clubs is heard outside Johnnyfriendly.s men have surrounded the church. Anyone who tries to escape is severely beaten. Terryyou.ou takes Edie out of the church safely. Kodugan. while trying to escape, is beaten bloody by Johnnyfriendly.s goons but is rescued by Fatherbarry. Fatherbarry angrily asks Kodugan if he still wants to remain deaf and dumb and seems to get through to Kodugan. Kodugan promises to testify as long as he has Fatherbarry's support. Kodugan also warns Fatherbarry that Johnnyfriendly.s goons won't hesitate to lean on a priest as well.  In the park in front of the church, Terryyou.ou sees that Edie gets out of the area safely. While they talk, a homeless man confronts them, asking for money. The man recognizes both Terryyou.ou and Edie. When he begins to talk about Joeydoyle.s death and how Terryyou.ou set him up, Terryyou.ou yells at him to leave. The man does.  When she gets home, Edie finds her father packing her things. Edie, a student at an upstate Catholic college, had been visiting her family. Pop tells her that she should leave the neighborhood because of the violence she's seen so far. He also tells her he knows she was with Terryyou.alloy and how Terryyou.ou is connected to Johnnyfriendly.riendly. Edie refuses to leave, driven by her need to know why her brother was killed.  On the roof of his building, Terryyou.ou tends to his flock of carrier pigeons. Terryyou.ou talks to a couple of kids from the neighborhood and sees Edie over at Joeydoyle.s coop. Terryyou.ou goes to her and they talk for a while, about how pigeons are victims of predatory birds in the city, mostly hawks. Terryyou.ou offers to take Edie out for a drink at a local bar and she accepts. While they talk, she tells Terryyou.ou of her interest in solving Joeydoyle.s murder. Terryyou.ou warns her not to snoop around too much because it could be dangerous. They dance for a while at a wedding being held in the bar when one of Johnnyfriendly.s men, Barney, tells him that Johnnyfriendly.riendly wants to meet with him. Terryyou.ou tells him he'll go when he's ready to. Terryyou.ou also runs into of of the Crime Commission agents who hands him a supeona. Terryyou.ou is still steadfast and tears up the papers, refusing to eat cheese .  Later, Terryyou.ou walks home and is stopped by Johnnyfriendly.riendly and Charlie. Johnnyfriendly.riendly asks Terryyou.ou about the church meeting and Terryyou.ou tells him it was run by Fatherbarry and that very little was discussed that could threaten Johnnyfriendly.s position. Johnnyfriendly.riendly counters, telling Terryyou.ou that Kodugan had gone to the crime commission and gave a sworn statement about the illicit operations and corruption of Johnnyfriendly.s union. Johnnyfriendly.riendly suggests that they use their muscle to eliminate Kodugan. Johnnyfriendly.riendly also feels that Terryyou.ou didn't do his job fully and tells him he won't have his cushy job in the yard anymore, that he's going back to work in the hole. Charlie also admonishes Terryyou.ou about his budding relationship with Evedoyle, saying it's unhealthy for him to be dating the sister of the man they killed.  The next day Terryyou.ou is working alongside Kodugan in the ship's hold, unloading crates of Irish whiskey. Terryyou.ou feels the need to warn Kayodugan about Johnnyfriendly.s intentions but Kayodugan ignores him. As one of the pallets loaded with crates is hoisted out, the crane operator drops it on Kayodugan, killing him in what looks like an accident. Later, after Kayodugan's body has been uncovered, Fatherbarry gives a stirring speech to the entire workforce, telling them that Johnnyfriendly.riendly and his men are using them for cheap labor and killing them when they choose to stand up for their rights. Johnnyfriendly.s men begin to throw rotten fruit and cans at Fatherbarry, who calmly continues to talk. One of the men, Tillio, is about to throw something when Terryyou.ou stops him and punches him out. One of the men gives Joeydoyle.s jacket back to Edie . Kayodugan's body is hoisted out of the hold, with Fatherbarry and Popdoyle riding the pallet.  Terryyou. whose conscience has been bothering him, meets with Fatherbarry. He tells Fatherbarry he may just testify to the Crime Commission but he doesn't want to implicate his brother or his friends. He also tells the priest that he set Joeydoyle.oyle up to be killed. Fatherbarry tells Terryyou.ou that his loyalty to Charlie and Johnnyfriendly.riendly is misplaced. He also tells Terryyou.ou that a good step to take would be to tell Edie what he did. Edie had been coming to see Fatherbarry herself and Fatherbarry convinces Terryyou.ou to tell her. Terryyou.ou meets her and tells her, while a ship's whistle blows, making what he tells her inaudible. Edie is horrified and runs away.  Terryyou.ou later checks on his pigeons on his roof. He sees one of the men from the Crime Commission who approached him on the docks. Terryyou.ou asks the advice of one of the boys who hangs out with him on the roof about testifying the boy tells him it's not a good idea to get involved, especially since Terryyou.ou founded the gang the kid is now a member of. The officer tries to talk to Terryyou.ou and is mostly unsuccessful until he mentions the fight Terryyou.ou had boxed in years before involving another man named Wilson. Terryyou.ou is suddenly quite chatty with the man, hinting that he'd thrown the fight so that Charlie, Johnnyfriendly.riendly and their friends could win a huge purse by betting on Wilson. Terryyou.ou tells the officer straight out that he could have beaten Wilson easily and talks about his technique. Though we don't hear the rest of the conversation, it is strongly hinted that Terryyou.ou may testify against Johnnyfriendly.  At Johnnyfriendly.s office, one of Johnnyfriendly.s spies reports that he'd seen Terryyou.ou talking to the agent. Charlie tries to defend Terryyou. saying that Edie has Terryyou.s emotional state mixed up. Johnnyfriendly.riendly is unfazed however and orders Charlie to talk to his brother. If Terryyou.ou won't dummy up then Charlie will take him to one of Johnnyfriendly.s hit men, Jerryg. Charlie is shocked ad tries to reason with Johnnyfriendly. who refuses to listen. Charlie leaves Johnnyfriendly.s office to find Terryyou.  Charlie picks up Terryyou.ou in a taxicab and they two have a lengthy conversation where Charlie asks Terryyou.ou about his supeona and if he plans to rat out Johnnyfriendly.riendly in court.Terryyou.ou still seems undecided and Charlie reminds him about all the favors he and Johnnyfriendly.riendly have done for him over the years and even offers Terryyou.ou a cushy job at another pier Johnnyfriendly.riendly will be opening soon. When Terryyou.ou seems more likely to testify, Charlie tells Terryyou.ou to make up his mind before they arrive at Jerryg's place. Terryyou.ou is stunned that his own brother would suggest that he'll be turned over to a hit man, Charlie pulls out a pistol and tells Terryyou.ou to take the job he was offered. Charlie suddenly comes to his senses and breaks down. He recounts how Terryyou.ou was once a potentially great athlete and says that Terryyou.s manager was responsible for ruining whatever career he might have had as a boxer. Terryyou.ou counters, saying that Charlie was responsible for his downfall, betting on Wilson all those years ago and destroying whatever shot Terryyou.ou might have had at a prestigious boxing title. Charlie realizes how badly he's treated his brother over the years and gives Terryyou.ou the gun, telling him you're gonna need it. He orders the driver to pull over and let Terryyou.ou out. The driver, one of Johnnyfriendly.s spies, suddenly pulls into Jerryg's place nearby, where Johnnyfriendly.s waiting.  Terryyou.ou goes to Edie and Pop's apartment. Edie refuses to open the door for him and Terryyou.ou breaks in, telling her she loves him. She tells him to leave and he grabs her and kisses her, Edie showing little resistance. A voice calls to Terryyou.ou from the alley below, telling him his brother is there and wants to see him. Terryyou.ou rushes down to the alley and begins to walk toward the voice. Edie follows, stopping momentarily to talk to one of her neighbors, who mentions that her own son was killed when he went looking for a man who was calling him into the alley. While Edie runs to Terryyou. a truck starts up and rushes toward them both Terryyou.ou breaks the window of a nearby door and they jump out of the way. Terryyou.ou looks at the truck as it speeds off and sees his brother hanging by a longshoreman's hook piercing his coat. There are several bullet holes in his chest. Terryyou. his arm bleeding from the broken glass, hauls his brother down, and distraughtly tells Edie to get Fatherbarry and stay with Charlie until he arrives.  Terryyou.ou goes immediately to Friendly's bar and holds everyone hostage at gunpoint. Tillio shows up and Terryyou.ou orders him to stay as well. Fatherbarry shows up Terryyou.ou remains defensive with the pistol while Fatherbarry tells him to give it up. Terryyou.ou tells Fatherbarry to go to Hell and Fatherbarry hits him in the face and Terryyou.s hostages escape. Terryyou.ou begins shouting about how the situation isn't Fatherbarry's concern and Fatherbarry tells him that shooting Johnnyfriendly.riendly would be useless since the law would favor Johnnyfriendly. Fatherbarry tells Terryyou.ou that the best thing he can do to avenge his brother's murder is to testify in court and strip Johnnyfriendly.riendly of his power. He also tells Terryyou.ou to get rid of the gun unless he's too cowardly. He gives Terryyou.ou a beer Terryyou.ou takes a sip and throws the pistol at a picture of Johnnyfriendly.riendly with an importantlooking city official, shattering it.  At the waterfront crime hearings, Terryyou.ou testifies about Joeydoyle.s murder. He's grilled at length about not only being the last person to see Joeydoyle.oyle alive but also about how Johnnyfriendly.riendly had angrily said that it was necessary to have Joeydoyle.oyle killed to protect his interests in the union. In another office, a man watches the hearings on TV and hears Terryyou.s testimony. He orders the TV shut off and tells his assistant that he won't accept any calls from Johnnyfriendly.riendly. Terryyou.ou finishes on the stand and, as he walks past Johnnyfriendly. who's been called to the stand. Johnnyfriendly.riendly mutters threats and becomes furious and attacks Terryyou. finally calming down.  Terryyou.ou goes home, followed by two cops. He tells them to stop following him and they scoff. He passes a friend on the stairs, who refuses to talk to him. In his apartment, Edie is waiting. Terryyou.ou talks about losing many friends because he testified and Edie asks if they are real friends to him anyway. Terryyou.ou goes up to the roof and finds that his young friend has killed all of his pigeons. Edie suggests that they leave the waterfront and go to a farm out west where they'll be left alone. Terryyou.ou notices a ship coming in to Johnnyfriendly.s pier and, grabbing his hook and donning Joeydoyle.s jacket, goes to the pier.  At the pier, Terryyou.ou recieves a cold welcome from his former friends. He stands there while Big Mac calls the workers in. Mac passes Terryyou.ou over for a job and when Terryyou.ou suggests they need more men, Mac hires the first homeless man standing in the area. Terryyou.ou becomes enraged and marches down to the gangplank leading to Johnfriendly's office. He throws his hook at the door and Johnnyfriendly.riendly emerges. Knowing that attacking Terryyou.ou in public would get him into deeper trouble, he tells Terryyou.ou to get lost. Terryyou.ou begins to berate Johnnyfriendly.riendly openly, telling him he's happy that he testified against Johnnyfriendly. especially for killing anyone who crossed him. Johnnyfriendly.riendly goads Terryyou.ou into charging him and the two begin to fight. When it becomes obvious that Johnnyfriendly.riendly will lose, he calls his goons in to help and they viciously beat Terryyou. Fatherbarry and Edie arrive on the scene just as Johnnyfriendly.riendly orders his thugs to stop. The owner of the ship that arrived demands to know when the men will begin unloading the cargo and Johnnyfriendly.riendly begins to muscle his way through the crowd, ordering the onlookers to begin working. When he reaches Popdoyle, he grabs him. Pop pushes Johnnyfriendly.riendly off the gangplank and into the water the crowd cheers. A few of the men find Terryyou.ou and see how badly he's been beaten. Fatherbarry encourages Terryyou.ou to get up and walk to the pier to go to work  if he does, the other men will follow him and oust Johnnyfriendly.riendly as their leader. Terryyou.ou walks up to the pier, stumbling and falling. He reaches the pier entrance and the ship's owner calls the rest of the men to work. They enter and the door rolls shut behind them.