Persona begins with images of camera equipment and projectors lighting up and projecting dozens of brief cinematic glimpses, including a crucifixion, an erect penis, a tarantula spider, clips from a comedic silentfilm reel first seen in Bergman's Prison , and the slaughter of a lamb. The last, and longest, glimpse features a boy who wakes up in a hospital next to several corpses, reading Michaillermontov's A Hero of Our Time , and caressing a blurry image of Elisabetvogler.ogler andor Alma's faces.  A young nurse, Alma , is summoned by the head doctor and charged with the care of stage actress Elisabetvogler.ogler , who has, despite the lack of any diagnosed impairment, become mute. The hospital administrator  offers her own seaside cottage as a place for Alma to nurse Elisabetvogler.ogler back to health. Though Elisabetvogler.ogler is nearly catatonic when the film begins, she does react with extreme panic upon seeing a Vietnamese Buddhist monk's selfimmolation on television, and laughs mockingly at Alma's radio soap opera. As the two women leave the hospital together, Alma reads aloud a letter Elisabetvogler.s husband has sent her, which includes a photograph of her young son.  Together in the administrator's cottage, Elisabetvogler.ogler begins to relax, though she remains completely silent and nonresponsive. Alma speaks constantly to break the silence, at first about books she is reading and trivial matters, then increasingly about her own anxieties and relationship with her fianc, KarlHenrik, who scolds her for lacking ambition though not with my career, I suppose in some greater way. Alma constantly compares herself to Elisabetvogler.ogler and begins to grow attached to her. As the act closes, Alma confesses to cheating on her fianc in a mnage  quatre with underage boys. She became pregnant, and had KarlHenrik's friend abort the baby and that was that. She is not sure how to process the abortion mentally. Elisabetvogler.ogler is heard to say You ought to go to bed, or you'll fall asleep at the table, but Alma dismisses it as a dream. Elisabetvogler.ogler later denies speaking.  Alma drives into town, taking Elisabetvogler.s letters for the postbox, but parks by the roadside to read what she wrote. She discovers in Elisabetvogler.s letters that Elisabetvogler.ogler has been analyzing her and studying her. Alma returns distraught, accidentally breaks a drinking glass on the footpath, and leaves the shards there to cut Elisabetvogler. When Elisabetvogler.s feet start to bleed, her gaze meets Alma's knowingly, and the film itself breaks apart the screen flashes white, scratch marks appear up and down the image, the sound rises and screeches, and the film appears to unwind as brief flashes of the prelude reappear for fractions of a second each.  When the film resumes, it is following Elisabetvogler.ogler through the house with a thick blur on the lens. The image clears up with a sharp snap when she looks out the window before walking outside to meet Alma, who is weepy and bitter. At lunch, she tells Elisabetvogler.ogler she has been hurt by Elisabetvogler.ogler talking about her behind her back, and begs her to speak. When Elisabetvogler.ogler does not react, the nurse flies into a rage. Alma tries to attack her and chases her through the cottage, but Elisabetvogler.ogler hits her during the ensuing scuffle causing Alma's nose to start bleeding. In retaliation, Alma grabs a pot of boiling water off the stove and is about to fling it at Elisabetvogler. but stops after hearing Elisabetvogler.ogler wail No Alma explains that Elisabetvogler.ogler wouldn't have spoken had she not feared death. Alma goes to the bathroom, washes her face, and tries to pull herself together. She then goes to Elisabetvogler.ogler and frustrated by her unresponsiveness tells her, You are inaccessible. They said you were healthy, but your sickness is of the worst kind it makes you seem healthy. You act it so well everyone believes it, everyone except me, because I know how rotten you are inside. Elisabetvogler.ogler tries to walk away, but Alma pursues and continues to accost her. Elisabetvogler.ogler flees, and Alma chases her begging for forgiveness. That evening, Elisabetvogler.ogler opens a book she is reading and finds a famous Stroop Report photograph of Jews being arrested in the Warsaw Ghetto. Elisabetvogler.ogler stares at details in the photograph, but mostly at the boy with his hands raised.  That night, Alma watches Elisabetvogler.ogler sleep, analyzing her face and the scars she covers with makeup. She hears a man yelling outside, and finds Elisabetvogler.s husband, Mr. Elisabetvogler.ogler, in the garden. Mr. Elisabetvogler.ogler  mistakes Alma for his wife, and despite her repeatedly interjecting with I'm not your wife, delivers a monologue about his love for her and the son they have together . Elisabetvogler.ogler stands quietly beside the two, holding Alma's hand, and Alma admits her love for Mr. Elisabetvogler.ogler and accepts her role as the mother of Elisabetvogler.s child. The two make love with Elisabetvogler.ogler sitting quietly next to the bed with a look of panic on her face, and afterward, Alma cries. The image of Elisabetvogler.ogler becomes blurry.  The climax of the film comes the next morning Alma catches Elisabetvogler.ogler in the kitchen with a pained expression on her face, holding a picture of a small boy. Alma then narrates Elisabetvogler.s life story back to her, while the camera focuses tightly on Elisabetvogler.s anguished face at a party one night, a man tells her Elisabetvogler. you have it virtually all in your armory as woman and artist. But you lack motherliness. She laughs, because it sounds silly, but the idea sticks in her mind, and she lets her husband impregnate her. As the pregnancy progresses, she grows increasingly worried about her stretching and swelling body, her responsibility to her child, the pain of birth, and the idea of abandoning her career. Everyone Elisabetvogler.ogler knows constantly says Isn't she beautiful She has never been so beautiful, but Elisabetvogler.ogler makes repeated attempts to abort the fetus. After the child is born, she is repulsed by it, and prays for the death of her son. The child grows up tormented and desperate for affection. The camera turns to show Alma's face, and she repeats the same monologue again. At its conclusion, one half of the face of Alma and the other of Elisabetvogler.s visage are shown in split screen, such that they appear to have become one face. Alma panics and cries I'm not like you. I don't feel like you. I'm not Elisabetvogler.ogler you are Elisabetvogler.ogler. I'm just here to help you Alma leaves, and later returns, to find that Elisabetvogler.ogler has become completely catatonic. Alma falls into a strange mood and gashes her arm, forcing Elisabetvogler.s lips to the wound and subsequently beating her. Alma packs her things and leaves the cottage alone, as the camera turns away from the women to show the crew and director filming the scene.