Note This synopsis describes the English version of the film. See the Discuss tab for details.    Princess Mononokesan is a fantasy adventure the story of an epic struggle between humanity and nature, where nature is represented by ancient, vengeful gods. The story's tangle of competing interests  cursed monsters, an assortment of ambitious people, a selfless hero, and those vengeful gods  is remarkable for including no villain.   Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup and the Demon  The film opens on a view of a mountainous forest, shrouded in mist. Giant beasts and ancient gods inhabit the forest, says a voiceover, and owe their allegiance to the Great Forest Spirit. While they once lived harmoniously with humans, times have changed. The forest is disappearing and now is the age of gods and demons.  A young man named Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup, Japanese  Yjimatsuda, a prince of the dwindling Emishi people, rides his red elk, Yakul, up the hillside from his forest village. Along the way, he passes three village girls including Kayatarastrong, his younger sister . He tells the girls that the village oracle, Hiisamamitsukomori, has sensed trouble and is ordering everyone to the village. Kayatarastrong tells him the old man Jisan noticed something from his watchtower, so Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup rides to see him. He climbs the tower, sensing something deep in the forest. He and Jisan look to the edge of the forest where a massive creature suddenly emerges. Covered in wormy tendrils, the beast moves into the sunlight where it's revealed to be a massive boar changed into a demon a tatari gami. It breaks through a stone wall and knocks down the tower Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup manages to jump with Jisan to a nearby tree.  The demon rushes towards the village. When Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup mounts Yakul to pursue it, a villager warns him that the beast is cursed and he must not let it touch him. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup talks to the demon as it runs, begging it to still its anger and leave the village alone. When it threatens Kayatarastrong and the other girls as they run to the village, Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup takes his bow and attacks the demon, shooting it in the eye. The demon wraps its tendrils around Ashitakabillycrudup.s right arm just before he shoots another arrow into the boar's head. As it dies, the tendrils dissolve from its body and from Ashitakabillycrudup.s arm, burning it. Villagers rush up the hill, one of them carrying the elderly oracle Hiisama. She gives Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup some water to pour over his arm and approaches the dying boar. Bowing, she promises to give it a proper burial and asks the demon to bear them no ill will. It bitterly responds that they will feel its hate and suffer as I have suffered. Then it dies, quickly decomposing into a bloodied skeleton.  That evening, Hiisama calls the village elders together in her high hut and performs a divination using fortune stones to interpret the day's events. She tells Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup to show his arm to the others. He reveals a large red and black mark left by the demon's tendrils. The oracle tells him that his wound is cursed and that the infection will spread and eventually kill him. However, instead of waiting to die, he can rise to meet his fate.  Hiisama shows Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup a rough iron ball found in the boar's body she believes it turned the boar god into a demon. Since the boar came from the west, Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup must ride there and discover what calamity has befallen those lands. But if he leaves, he can never return. When anyone leaves the village, the Emishi consider him dead  their way of protecting the secret of their existence. The village elders complain sadly about the loss of their last prince and how unfair it is that he is banished for having saved them all. One remarks that the gods must be laughing at them because, despite having hidden from the Emperor's shoguns  for so long, their numbers continue to fall.  Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup cuts off his topknot of hair as a sign of his separation from the tribe and leaves. As he rides Yakul out of the village, Kayatarastrong approaches him, breaking the taboo of seeing a banished person. She gives him her crystal dagger necklace. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup thanks her and says he will never forget her before riding off, Kayatarastrong staring after him.   The Strength of the Curse  Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup and Yakul travel many miles westward, across plains and mountains. One day, they see smoke in the distance and ride closer. Samurai soldiers engaged in a battle with villagers shoot arrows at Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup fleeing, he sees another samurai attacking a woman with a long sword. When he draws his bow and orders the samurai to stop, the wound on his right arm throbs visibly and spreads. Ashitakabillycrudup.s arrow flies with such fierce speed that it takes the samurai's sword and lodges it in a tree, with the man's arms still attached. Two samurai on horseback threaten to intercept Ashitakabillycrudup. He yells at them to let him pass, but when they refuse, he releases another arrow, decapitating one. The other watches Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup flee, convinced he's a demon.  Holding his right arm under a small waterfall, Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup notices the mark is growing. In a town, Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup attempts to buy rice with a gold nugget. The seller refuses it at first, saying it isn't money, but a monk named Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton, Japanese  Kaorukobayashi remarks that the nugget is pure gold and worth several bags of rice. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup quickly leaves the growing crowd with his single bag.  Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton follows Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup as he leaves town, commenting that he noticed Ashitakabillycrudup.s fighting skills in the samurairavaged town earlier. They see some thugs following them, no doubt after Ashitakabillycrudup.s gold, and Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton proposes a quick getaway. They camp together later, cooking their rice, and Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton mentions an ancient people called the Emishi who made bowls and arrows like Ashitakabillycrudup.s and who were rumored to ride red elk, but he hints that he'll keep Ashitakabillycrudup.s secret. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup tells Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton about his experience with the boar demon and his quest to discover its origins, and shows Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton the iron ball. Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton doesn't think much of Ashitakabillycrudup.s curse.  But he does tell him of a mining town further to the west, surrounded by ancient forests where giant gods still dwell. Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton also mentions that the emperor has offered a mountain of gold to anyone who can help him live forever. The next morning Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup leaves quietly to continue his journey alone, while Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton sleeps.   Gods and Spirits   On a rainslicked mountainside, a caravan of oxen and men carrying rice to Iron Town moves along a narrow path. Their leader, Ladyeboshiminniedriver, Japanese  Ykotanaka keeps watch with her first lieutenant, Gonzajohndimaggio, Japanese  Tsunehikokamij. Suddenly she notices two giant white wolves charging down the muddy slope. A masked girl rides one of them, holding her spear high. Ladyeboshi orders her men to open fire with their ishibiya, or hand cannons. The shots drive off the wolves and one man remarks that they weren't so big. Ladyeboshi responds that they were just pups wait till you see their mother.  As if on cue, Nagomoro.illiananderson, Japanese  Akihiromiwa attacks the caravan, sending people and oxen tumbling down the mountain. Nagomoro is more than twice the size of her pups and has two tails. The guards use a flamethrower to set her on fire and Ladyeboshi shoots her in the chest, sending her off the cliff. The surviving men are pleased with themselves, but Ladyeboshi reminds them that it takes more than that to kill a god. She urges the survivors onward and tells them to forget about those who fell.  Meanwhile, at the base of the mountain, Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup arrives at a river swollen from the rainfall. He sees bodies floating by and pulls out two injured men, casualties from Ladyeboshi's rice caravan. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup notices the massive body of Nagomoro on the other side of the river, along with her pups. He watches as the warrior girl, Lordasano Akihiromiwa, Japanese  Yurikoishida, tends to the injured wolves, trying to suck the bullet from Nagomoro.s wound and spitting out blood.  Nagomoro.s growling alerts Lordasano to Ashitakabillycrudup.s presence. He introduces himself and asks if they are ancient gods. Lordasano tells him to go away before disappearing into the forest with the wolves.  A scream brings Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup back to where he left the injured men. One of them, Kouroku the oxdriver Johndemita, Japanese  Masahikonishimura, has woken up and is trying to get away from a small white spirit with a bobbing head. Kouroku doesn't get far because his right arm and leg are broken. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup calms him and tells him that it's a kodoma, a tree spirit, and it  and the others that begin to appear  are a sign that the forest is healthy. However, Kouroku tells him that the creature will bring its master, a large forest spirit. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup talks to the kodama in a friendly way, asking for guidance and safe passage through the forest. Kouroku is convinced they will be led astray. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup is worried about the other wounded man, one of Ladyeboshi.s gunners, and wants to take him home to Iron Town by the most direct route, which lies through the forest. As they follow the original kodama, Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup carrying the gunner while Kouroku rides Yakul, more kodamas join them.  They come to a beautiful, mysterious, mossy part of the wood where large trees grow among pools of clear water. This is the domain of the Forest Spirit, though they don't know that yet. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup sees the footprints of Lordasano and the wolves. He sets the gunner down to fetch some water and notices the tracks of a threetoed animal he doesn't recognize. He scans the area and spots a herd of deer followed closely by one with many antlers. It stops and Ashitakabillycrudup.s arm suddenly throbs and moves on its own. He struggles to subdue it but only regains control when the mysterious deer vanishes. After the incident, Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup notices the gunner he's carrying seems a bit lighter. Kouroku's arm stops hurting and he raises it in the air proclaiming that it's healed, but quickly realizes it's still quite broken.   Iron Town   They emerge from the forest where they can see the Iron Town, Tatara, a large settlement on the other side of a lake. The town is protected by a tall wooden stockade. They are taken across and welcomed by a crowd as Kouroku tells how Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup rescued them. Gonza approaches Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup and demands to know who he is and how he managed to walk through the forest . He is cut short when Kouroku's wife, Tokijadapinkettsmith, Japanese  Sumishimamoto, runs down and berates Kouroku for getting injured and risking his livelihood. She takes a moment to thank Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup before criticizing Gonza for not taking better care of his men. Ladyeboshi appears above and also thanks Ashitakabillycrudup. She invites him to come see her later on.  Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup eats with the men of Iron Town. Some of the women stop by and invite him to see where they work. They heckle the men before leaving, giggling to themselves. The women are former prostitutes, the men explain Ladyeboshi freed them by buying their contracts from their brothels. While they're hard workers, they hardly make acceptable wives. However, since Ladyeboshi came to Iron Town, things have changed for the better and she fears no one, not even the gods. They tell of Nago, the boar god who once ruled the forest surrounding Iron Town. He became enraged when the men cut trees down to get at the ore beneath the ground and often attacked them with his herd of boars. When Ladyeboshi came with her gunners, she set fire to the forest and shot Nago. Ashitakabillycrudup.s arm swells in anger as he realizes that it was Nago who inflicted his cursed wound, and Ladyeboshi who turned Nago into a demon.  Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup finds Ladyeboshi inspecting samples of iron set to go out with the next shipment, Gonza at her side. He removes his sleeve and shows Ladyeboshi his cursed wound, the direct result of her actions against Nago, and the iron ball which, he tells her, killed Nago. She doesn't deny responsibility, but asks him what he's doing in Iron Town. He repeats what Hiisama told him before he left his village he has to see with eyes unclouded by hate. Though Ladyeboshi laughs at this, she agrees to show Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup her secrets while Gonza is left in charge, irritable and suspicious of Ashitakabillycrudup.  Ladyeboshi takes Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup to her private garden where a group of leper gunsmiths live in a small house. There, despite being wrapped in bandages, they create new weapons for her including new rifles inspired by Chinese design. Ladyeboshi has asked them to design an ishibiya gun light enough for the women to use. Ladyeboshi shows Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup that the new models, while still too heavy, are perfect for piercing samurai armor and powerful enough to kill gods. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup objects to this new way of spreading hate but Ladyeboshi maintains the necessity of protecting the fort. However, she apologizes for what happened to Ashitakabillycrudup. At the mention of the curse, Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup grows angry and his wounded arm springs to life and tries to draw his sword on Ladyeboshi. Only with difficulty can his other arm keep the cursed one in check. The lepers shrink back in fear, though Ladyeboshi remains calm. She asks if his arm would like to kill her and Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup says the hate would not stop there. An elderly leper asks Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup to have mercy on Ladyeboshi because she took pity on the lepers, caring for them and sheltering them when no one else would. He says life is hard, it is cursed, but still people find ways to keep living.  Later that night, Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup and Ladyeboshi are on the town's stockade. Ladyeboshi showcases her new rifle's power by shooting at the gods of the ape clan, who she says come out at night to plant trees where the people of Iron Town have cut them down. Ladyeboshi asks Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup to stay at Tatara and help her kill the Forest Spirit. He's horrified, but she says that when the Forest Spirit is dead, all the animal gods will be dumb beasts. The land will be the richest in the world, and Princess Mononokesan  will be human again.  Ladyeboshi says Lordasano.s soul was taken by the wolves and she now lives to kill Ladyeboshi for what she's done to the forest. The blood of the Forest Spirit is said to grant immortality and Ladyeboshi believes it can cure anything, even the lepers  even Ashitakabillycrudup.s curse.  Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup goes to the forge where the women are working the bellows. He offers his help as Tokijadapinkettsmith explains that they work the bellows for days at a time, but it's better than being in the brothels the men know their place and the women can eat all they want.   Lordasano Attacks   Lordasano. with her two wolf brothers, is on the mountain looking down at Iron Town. She dons her war mask and they run down the hillside. With astonishing agility and strength, Lordasano makes it over the stockade wall and races across the rooftops, dodging shots fired at her. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup senses her presence and runs to meet her. Though she attacks him, he tries to explain that he's not her enemy. He follows her up onto the roof of the huge building that houses the forge. Ladyeboshi, backed by riflemen and by two women wielding the new guns, calls to Lordasano to come down. She says the two women with her want retribution for husbands killed by the wolves. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup tries to tell Lordasano to stop before running into a trap, but she ignores him and charges down the roof. A blast at her feet sends her tumbling to the ground where Ladyeboshi.s women fire shots at her. One blows her mask off and renders her unconscious.  While she's down Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup holds off Gonza and a group of men by pulling a beam off the roof and throwing it at them.  As soon as she recovers, Lordasano pushes Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup away and runs off to fight Ladyeboshi. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup follows Lordasano. the curse showing as ghostly tendrils around his right arm. When Gonza tries to stop him, Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup bends Gonza's sword blade into a circle.  Lordasano. with a knife, and Ladyeboshi, with a sword, are fighting in a circle of armed townspeople who are cheering for Ladyeboshi. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup breaks into the circle and separates them. He holds up his right arm, covered in the writhing, snaky tendrils that show the curse is at work.  This is what hatred looks like, he tells the onlookers. It's eating me alive, and soon it will kill me. Fear and anger only make it grow faster.  But nobody's ready to hear his antihate speech. Lordasano is struggling to break his grip and Ladyeboshi, quipping that she'll cure him by removing his arm, swings at him with her sword. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup knocks them both out to stop them from fighting him and each other. He hands Ladyeboshi to her people and says he's taking Lordasano away. The townspeople aren't happy about this one of the women, upset at his treatment of Ladyeboshi, shoots Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup as he carries Lordasano.  The ball passes through his body and he bleeds, but the curse has made him so strong  for the moment  that he keeps walking. When the guards won't open the town's huge gate, saying it takes ten men to lift it, he opens it himself despite bleeding profusely. Lordasano.s wolf brothers are waiting just outside. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup tells them he's bringing Lordasano out to them, and he leaves Iron Town with Lordasano and Yakul.  Yakul carries Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup and the unconscious Lordasano on the mountainside. As before, Lordasano flails and struggles the moment she comes to, before she knows where she is. She knocks Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup to the ground. He lies there, not moving the strength that comes from the curse has ebbed, and he's wounded and very weak. The wolves threaten him but Lordasano calls them off, then threatens to kill him herself  and draws his own sword for the purpose. She demands to know why Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup stopped her from killing Ladyeboshi. He's barely conscious, but tries to say he wanted to save her life. Then he says she's beautiful, which shocks her. She's interrupted by the ape clan, who also want to kill Ashitakabillycrudup. They believe that if they eat him, they'll gain his strength. The wolves threaten the apes, but Lordasano tries to calm and conciliate them until her wolf brothers chase them away. She convinces the wolves to leave her alone with Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup and places him on Yakul, whose trust she gains.   In the Domain of the Forest Spirit   With Yakul's help, Lordasano takes the unconscious Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup to the heart of the Forest Spirit's domain, where they cross the lake to an island. The island is the forest's holy of holies, and Yakul will not at first set foot on it. Lordasano tells him he's wise not to. She leaves Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup lying half in the water with his head pillowed on the soft moss of the island, sticking a small tree she cut earlier into the ground at his head. She removes Yakul's harness, telling him he's free, before swimming away. The little kodamas  watch the humans, then turn their attention to the horizon as a huge figure comes into view the Night Walker, the Forest Spirit's twolegged nighttime form. They greet it with a clattering noise they make by rotating their heads. The Night Walker lowers itself into the clearing where Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup lies.  On a mountainside some way off, Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton sees the Night Walker too. He points it out to one of the hunters who are assisting him  they're all wearing bear skins  but the hunter says it's a sin to look at the Night Walker. Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton watches it shrink down into the trees as it resumes its deerlike daytime shape. On the island, the Forest Spirit walks over to look at Ashitakabillycrudup. It has wise eyes in a red, masklike humanoid face. Wherever it steps with its odd threetoed feet, plants grow, flower, and die back. When it comes close to the little tree Lordasano put near Ashitakabillycrudup. the leaves wither and die.  As Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton and his hunters climb down the mountain, they see hundreds of boars coming up. These boars aren't native to this area they must have traveled a great distance to get to this forest. Their leader is a giant white boar god, Lord Lordokkoto Keithdavid, Japanese  Hisaya Morishige. Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton and the hunters run when Lordokkoto lets out a roar and they realize he is aware of them.  Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup is under water. When the Forest Spirit touches the gunshot wound in his chest, it stops bleeding. He wakes up on the island and finds the gunshot wound is gone  but Nago's cursed mark remains on his right arm.  Lordasano comes back. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup is surprised to hear her call Yakul by name. She says that Yakul told her his name, and a bit about Ashitakabillycrudup. She says she'll help him because the Forest Spirit spared his life. Lordasano offers Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup meat jerky, but he's too weak to chew it. Lordasano chews for him and passes the food from her mouth to his. The act brings tears to Ashitakabillycrudup.s eyes.  Nagomoro arrives with Lordasano.s brothers, then Lordokkoto with his herd of boars. They say they've come to kill humans and save the forest. Lordasano. protecting Ashitakabillycrudup. says that the Forest Spirit healed him. The boars are angry  why would the Forest Spirit heal a human when it didn't bother to heal Nagomoro says that she's wounded as Nago was and she's dying. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup confesses that he killed Nago and shows his cursed wound. Lord Lordokkoto comes forward and sniffs at Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup and Lordasano. Lordasano realizes that Lordokkoto is blind. Lordokkoto thanks Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup for dealing with Nago, but says he'll kill Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup if they meet again. Though they suspect it will be futile, Lordokkoto and the boars plan to attack the humans . Nagomoro tries to convince Lordokkoto that they can't defeat the humans, but Lordokkoto says they'll fight to the last. After the boars leave, Lordasano and Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup see the Forest Spirit walking on the water of the lake.   A Skirmish   A battle rages near Iron Town as Ladyeboshi and the Iron Towners fight Lordasano and his samurai. Lordasano wishes to control the orerich lands but his men are decimated by Ladyeboshi.s gunfire. As Ladyeboshi returns to Iron Town, she meets Jigobillybobthornton. who sends his riflemen to hide. Ladyeboshi tells Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton that Lordasano has offered to back off if she gives him half her iron. As they reach Iron Town's main gate, a messenger from Lordasano asks to speak to Ladyeboshi. The women at the gate refuse and taunt him  You want some of our iron Here you go They shoot at the messenger, who flees.  Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton laughs at the women's bravado before introducing an interesting note to Ladyeboshi. Sent from the Mikado  himself, it requests the head of the Forest Spirit and offers a large reward. The emperor believes that the head will give him immortal life and Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton is keen to collect the reward with Ladyeboshi.s help. If she won't cooperate he threatens to withdraw his riflemen, who are helping to hold off Lordasano. Ladyeboshi shows the letter to the Iron Town women, who don't think much of it they don't seem to know who the emperor is. Ladyeboshi tells Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton that her way is better than Jigobillybobthornton.s direct attack keep chipping away at the forest, year by year, and there will be no loss of life.  But Ladyeboshi says she'll keep her promise to help Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton kill the Forest Spirit, and by the way he should tell his riflemen to come out of their hiding place. Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton laughs.  Before she goes, Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton asks Ladyeboshi whether a young man riding an elk has come to Iron Town.  Came, and went, Ladyeboshi replies.  She doesn't entirely trust Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton and his riflemen she arms the Iron Town women and tells them to stay behind and defend the town  against Lordasano, and also against the possibility that Jigobillybobthornton.s riflemen will turn on them. She tells them not to trust men.   Nagomoro.s Cave  Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup wakes in Nagomoro.s cave, high above the trees, and finds Lordasano sleeping beside him. He gets up, his arm throbbing, and walks out onto the rock ledge to look down on the forest. Nagomoro. perched on the rocks above him, suggests that he jump to end the pain his wound is causing him. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup asks what's been happening and Nagomoro tells him that he's been asleep for days. She's sorry he didn't cry out in his sleep because then she would have felt justified in biting his head off to keep him quiet. The boars are on the move, Nagomoro says, and she can feel the pain of the forest as it dies beneath their rampaging feet.  Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup asks why the humans and the forest can't live together in peace but Nagomoro laughs, saying such a thing can't happen. She longs for the day when she can kill Ladyeboshi. There will be a battle, she predicts, and Lordasano will fight alongside the gods and die with them. When Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup objects, saying that she's human, Nagomoro becomes angry and reveals that she once attacked some humans who invaded the forest. In their terror, the people threw their baby at Nagomoro. The baby was Lordasano Nagomoro kept her and raised her. Though she loves Lordasano. Nagomoro understands that Lordasano will never fully belong anywhere  either to the wolves or the humans  and there's nothing Nagomoro or Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup can do about that. Nagomoro tells Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup to leave her cave by dawn if he comes back she'll kill him.  When Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup wakes up again in the cave, it's broad daylight and Lordasano and Nagomoro are gone. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup gathers his things, finding supplies neatly left for him. Still very weak, he stumbles down to Yakul. One of the wolf brothers escorts him out of the forest and on to a path to Iron Town. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup throws Kayatarastrong's crystal dagger necklace to the wolf, asking him to give it to Lordasano.   A Battle   Lordasano rides her wolf brother to meet Nagomoro on a mountainside overlooking Iron Town. In the fields around the town, Ladyeboshi's people have built stinking fires that block the animals' sense of smell. They cut down trees to anger the boars, hoping to lure them into a trap. Nagomoro can see it, but observes that Lordokkoto is too stubborn to change his tactics. Lordasano says she's going to help Lordokkoto she feels that with neither eyes nor sense of smell to depend on, Lord Lordokkoto needs her more than Nagomoro does. Nagomoro tells Lordasano that she can go away with Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup if she wants  that boy wanted to share his life with you. Lordasano replies bitterly that she hates humans. But when her second brother arrives and gives her Ashitakabillycrudup.s necklace, she seems touched at this gift. Lordasano puts it around her neck as she says goodbye to Nagomoro. who will go and wait for the Forest Spirit. Lordasano and the young wolves go off together to join the boars, who are running headlong into battle. When they catch up with Lordokkoto. he won't listen to Lordasano.s warning about the humans' scheme to enrage and trap the boars. They run into battle together.  As Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup rides towards Iron town, dejected, he hears the explosions set off by the rampaging boars. From a distance, he sees the traps exploding around the town the battle has begun. However, closer gunfire draws his attention. As he nears the town, some samurai try to stop him. Yakul leaps over one, jumps into the lake, and swims for Iron Town as Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup deflects the samurais' arrows with his sword. They find Iron Town under siege by Lordasano's men. From the top of the stockade, Tokijadapinkettsmith and the other women tell Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup that Ladyeboshi and the men went after the Forest Spirit Lordasano waited till they were gone to attack. Only the women and the lepers are left to defend Iron Town, and they're having some trouble. They ask Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup to carry word of their plight to Ladyeboshi and bring her back. Kouroku returns Ashitakabillycrudup.s bow and arrows.  Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup rides off, pursued by samurai on horseback. As he nears the mountain, which is smoking from the remains of the battle, a samurai shoots an arrow into Yakul's haunch. His anger and his wound increasing, Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup stops to fight. His arrows take the arm off one samurai and decapitate another. He snatches one of the samurais' arrows out of the air. The remaining samurai rides off. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup pulls the arrow out of Yakul's wound and tries to leave him behind, saying he'll come back for him later, but Yakul limps along behind him.  They reach the part of the battlefield where Ladyeboshi's men and a few of Jigobillybobthornton.s mercenaries are burying their dead. The fighting here was very fierce many human bodies  mostly Iron Towners  are laid out awaiting burial, and dead boars are piled everywhere. They don't see Lordasano among the dead. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup tells the men that Iron Town is being attacked and he needs to deliver a message to Ladyeboshi. One of the mercenaries challenges Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup and demands to hear his message. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup says he needs to deliver it in person and is told she went into the forest.  Ladyeboshi.s men explain that a trap had been laid for the boars, but the men did not realize they were meant as live bait. The mercenaries planted land mines and didn't tell the Iron Town men where they were. Consequently many of the Iron Towners were blown up along with the boars, who were slaughtered in great numbers. One of the men says he saw Lordasano. but he doesn't know what happened to her.  Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup tells the men that Iron Town needs help. The men of Iron Town become angry when the mercenaries tell them they can't leave to protect their home. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup notices one of Lordasano.s wolf brothers trying to wriggle out from under the boar corpses. He helps, but isn't strong enough to free the wolf. A mercenary objects, and Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup says he needs the wolf to guide him to the forest where Ladyeboshi is. The mercenary responds by shooting darts at Ashitakabillycrudup. which is the last straw for the Iron Town men  they knock the mercenary out with a shovel. Then they help Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup free the wolf. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup leaves Yakul in the care of the men and goes with the wolf to find Lordasano and Ladyeboshi.   An Ambush   In the forest, a hunter reports to Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton and Ladyeboshi that Lord Lordokkoto is badly wounded and heading for the domain of the Forest Spirit Lordasano is with him.  Lordasano walks with Lordokkoto and her wolf brother. Lordokkoto is bleeding heavily and losing strength. He stops as a clan of ape gods appear in the trees overhead, throwing sticks and claiming that Lordasano.s actions have brought terrible things into the forest Bad things coming  neither human or animal.  Lordasano is unable to smell anything over the blood and can only watch as small animals run from the oncoming threat. A boar appears behind them, followed by many others, but they slither across the ground unnaturally. Lordasano realizes they're humans wearing boar skins.  Lordokkoto believes them to be his warriors returned from the dead. Renewed but delirious, he walks towards the domain of the Forest Spirit.  Lordasano fears that Lordokkoto is becoming a demon like Nago before him, he's defeated, mortally wounded, and filled with fear and hate. She sends her wolf brother to tell Nagomoro what's happening but stays with Lordokkoto herself, hoping to avert his change into a demon. But there's nothing she can do. Lordasano begs him to stop, but Lordokkoto ignores her and soon his anger and fear begin to bubble out of him in bloody tendrils as he transforms into a demon.  As she fends off the ghost boars, Lordasano hears one of her wolf brothers howling a message Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup is looking for her. An answering howl from the other brother tells Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup that Lordasano is in danger. Which is more true than they know  Lordasano is knocked out by a hunter's slingshot and sucked into the tendrils covering Lordokkoto. DemonLordokkoto resumes his rush toward the heart of the forest.  Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup mounts the wolf to move faster and soon comes upon Ladyeboshi. He dismounts to tell Ladyeboshi to halt her death march and return to help Iron Town. But Ladyeboshi, intent on finding and killing the Forest Spirit, only says the women can take care of themselves. Ladyeboshi tells the company to keep moving. Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton is confused as to whose side Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup is on. Behind Ladyeboshi's back, some of Jigobillybobthornton.s men wonder if they can do without her, but Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton says killing gods is dangerous business  he's happy to let her do it.  Meanwhile, Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup has rushed ahead and reached the Forest Spirit's pool, where he finds Nagomoro. who is dying. DemonLordokkoto arrives, still followed by the hunters in boar skins. Lordasano calls to Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup and he can see her struggling inside the demon. She is growing demontendrils herself. He asks Lordokkoto to give up Lordasano the hunters interfere. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup leaps onto Lordokkoto.s snout and tries to dig Lordasano out of Lordokkoto.s body while the wolf brothers fight off the hunters. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup is thrown off by the demon. He hits Nagomoro. waking her up, and lands in the water, stunned. Nagomoro. who was saving the last of her strength to fight Ladyeboshi, rouses herself to confront the demon and drags Lordasano out of the mass of tendrils.  As Nagomoro frees Lordasano. the Forest Spirit approaches in its deer form, walking across the water. Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton and Ladyeboshi can see it from their hiding place. Quelled by its appearance, Lordokkoto backs away and the tendrils begin to melt. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup wakes in the water to the sound of Nagomoro.s voice asking him to save Lordasano. He comes to the surface and sees Ladyeboshi shoot the Forest Spirit, though he cries out to her to stop. The Forest Spirit stops and sinks a bit when it's hit, then recovers and keeps walking toward the island. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup takes Lordasano from Nagomoro and returns to the water to wash the demon tendrils from her. On the island, the Forest Spirit heals Lordokkoto but allows him to die. Nagomoro too falls to the ground and seems to die. Ladyeboshi and the mercenaries watch the Forest Spirit from a distance, and Ladyeboshi comments that life and death are his to take or give.  The Forest Spirit starts to change from its daytime deer form into the Night Walker.  Watch closely, everyone. I'm going to show you how to kill a god, says Ladyeboshi. The trick is not to fear him.  Seeing her take aim, Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup throws his sword and hits her ishibiya, which only distracts her for a moment. The Forest Spirit looks at Ladyeboshi and plants sprout from the wooden parts of her gun, but this doesn't stop her either. She fires and hits the halftransformed Forest Spirit in the neck the head falls to the ground. Horrible black goo spouts from the neck, killing whatever it falls on. Dead kodamas fall from the trees all around. Ladyeboshi grabs the severed head and gives it to Jigobillybobthornton. Porters come up carrying a round metal box. Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton puts the head in the box and they run off.   Human Hands  Nagomoro.s head, apparently detached from her body by the black ooze, bites off Ladyeboshi's arm and disappears into the ooze.  Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup swims to Ladyeboshi and pulls her into the water, telling Gonza, who is with her, to come too to escape the ooze. When Gonza complains that he can't swim, Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup tells him to walk on the bottom of the pool, which isn't very deep. They go to the sacred island, where Lordasano is waiting with her wolf brothers. Lordasano wants to kill Ladyeboshi and is angry with Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup for helping her. She's in despair and is sure that nothing can save the forest, but Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup asks her to help him try.  The Night Walker is prowling the forest in search of its head, spreading black ooze and destruction with every step. It grows tentacles from its neck and sends them down into the forest, knocking down trees and tossing them around. Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton and his men are running away with the head as fast as they can go, but the Night Walker seems to sense where they're going and has a couple of near misses as it gropes for them.  In Iron Town, it's quiet. The women are guarding the walls and keeping an eye on Lordasano's camp while one of the leper gunsmiths fixes Tokijadapinkettsmith's ishibiya. Looking up at the mountain, they see the headless Night Walker and its tide of black, killing ooze coming over the ridge toward the town. It destroys Lordasano's encampments and keeps coming. Ashitakabillycrudup. Lordasano. and her wolf brothers arrive. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup tells the women and the lepers to get in the lake to escape the ooze. Urged on by Tokijadapinkettsmith, most of the people manage to get away before the ooze overruns the town. Standing in the lwater, they watch their forge catch fire and burn.  Lordasano. Ashitakabillycrudup. and the wolves go after Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton and the head. When they catch Jigobillybobthornton. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup demands that the head be returned to the Night Walker. Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton pleads to keep it. When the sun rises, he says, the Night Walker will disappear. Then he attacks Ashitakabillycrudup. telling the three porters carrying the head to run. Lordasano goes after them. The porters go uphill, but the black ooze heads them off. They give up and run away, leaving the head behind in its box. Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton grabs the box and tumbles down the slope with it, fetching up on a large rock with Lordasano and Ashitakabillycrudup. surrounded by a rising tide of deadly ooze. Jigobillybobthornton.illybobthornton is finally convinced that there's nothing more he can do he opens the box. Saying human hands must return it, Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup takes the head and he and Lordasano hold it high in the air. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup calls for the Night Walker to reclaim his head and be at peace. The Night Walker's neck grows down to meet the head and the Forest Spirit is made whole again.  On the lake, the Iron Town refugees watch the Night Walker straighten up with its head back in place and resume its usual appearance of starry transparency. Rafts approach carrying Ladyeboshi, Gonza, and the rest of the Iron Town men the two groups are happily reunited.  The Night Walker stands to face the sun, but when the sunrise touches it, it collapses and falls on Iron Town, disintegrating. A strong wind blows the burning remains of Iron Town away into the hills. Slowly, the bare, dead hillsides around the lake  even the ruins of Iron Town  begin to turn green again with sprouting plants. Kouroku looks on in amazement and the lepers look down at themselves to find they've healed.  Yakul, who arrived on the rafts with the men, finds Lordasano and Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup asleep in the grass. Nearby is the rock where they were marooned in the black ooze. Lordasano.s wolf brothers and the metal box are still there. Yakul wakes Ashitakabillycrudup. who wakes Lordasano. Lordasano says that the Forest Spirit is dead Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup replies that the Forest Spirit is life and death itself and cannot die. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup notices that his wound is healed  the marks of the curse on his right hand and arm are mostly gone only faint pink traces remain.  Lordasano says she cares for Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup but can't stay with him because she can't forgive the humans for what they did. Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup says you'll live in the forest, and I'll help them rebuild Iron Town. He promises to visit her in the forest. Riding one of the wolves, Lordasano departs.  Ladyeboshi, recovering from the loss of her arm, is optimistic. Sitting with her women and Gonza, she promises to start anew and build a better town. She sends for Ashitakabillycrudup.illycrudup to thank him.  Jigobillybobthornton. perched on the rocks high above with his one remaining porter, laughs to himself. He says, Well, I give up. You can't win against fools.  Around the dead trees near the Forest Spirit's pool, new trees are growing. Among them walks a little white kodama, rattling its head.