Kellerdover.over Kellerdover.over and his son Ralph are hunting deer, Ralph drops a buck as Kellerdover.over recites the Lord's Prayer, then smiles approvingly at the teen. On the drive home Kellerdover.over tells his son to always be ready. An old RV drives past the Kellerdover.over house. Later they talk about the family finances, Ralph wonders why they don't rent out the grandfather's old apartment, Kellerdover.over says it is in too poor condition. The family, Kellerdover. his wife Grace, son and daughter walk to a neighbor's house for Thanksgiving dinner with their friends the Birches. The families have a good time together. While the adults cook the kids go out, Annadover jumps on the old RV parked by the curb, they realize someone is inside and return back to the Joybirch house. Franklinbirch is an affable man and plays a bad trumpet. After dinner, the younger6year old daughters leave to go back to Anna's house to get her safety whistle she is supposed to carry at all times. Some time later Kellerdover.over realizes the girls haven't returned and that the teens hadn't escorted the two young ones. Kellerdover.over searches his own home to no avail. Ralph returns from looking also and mentions the RV from earlier. Detective Loki has Chinese food alone and chats with the waitress. His phone buzzes. After a police hunt, the white RV is found parked outside a gas station next to a wooded area. When Det. Loki, who heads the case, goes to confront the RV's driver, Alexjones.ones, Alexjones.ones panics, tries to speed away but crashes into the trees. Alexjones.ones is taken in for questioning, but it is found that he has the IQ of a 10yearold and rarely speaks. Detective Loki goes to see Alexjones.s aunt, Hollyjones, who raised him with his uncle after his parents died when he was six. Alexjones.s uncle left the home a couple years ago after a domestic dispute with his aunt. Alexjones.ones spends most nights sleeping in the RV and does not have many things. The RV shows no forensic evidence indicating the girls were forcibly taken into or struggled inside the RV, and Alexjones.s low intelligence means he couldn't have covered up such evidence. At night many volunteers search the woods calling for the girls. Loki comes to the Joybirch house and gets better photos of their daughter. At the Dovers, Loki tells Grace they passed the lie detector tests they did, he asks if there was a reason the girls ran away. Grace is weepy and says the girls were happy, Loki vows to find the girl. He greets Kellerdover. who seems sure it must be the RV driver. Loki tells the Dovers the evidence against Alexjones.ones is weak and tries to calm him down. The polygraph tests of him prove inconclusive due to his low IQ, and he repeatedly denies ever having seen the children. As the police are unable to find evidence against Alexjones. he will be released in two days. Loki asks his Capt to hold Alexjones.ones longer but the senior refuses. Loki updates him on the search. Loki interviews sex offenders within a 10 mile radius of the girls' homes. Loki discovers that a Father Patrickdunn has a bound and mummified body in a barricaded basement. The body is wearing a circular medallion with a maze design. Fatherdunn claims that he did not know who the man was, but that in confession the man talked about killing sixteen children and also admitted to having a marital dispute. Fatherdunn confesses that he convinced the man to come to his house, where he killed him to save the children and is arrested for murder.The search of the woods and river continues. Kellerdover.over has found out when Alexjones.ones is being released and attacks him in the police parking lot. He hears Alexjones.ones say They didn't cry until I left them. Though no one is close enough to hear this to corroborate, but Kellerdover.over takes this as proof that Alexjones.ones took the girls. Captain O'Malley lets Kellerdover.over off with a warning and sends him home after a brief talk with Loki. At the Alexjones house Loki interviews Alexjones.ones and Hollyjones again about the parking lot incident. He threatens to send the aunt to jail if Alexjones.ones is not honest. He then leaves and stands in front of an old car. Grace is distraught, Kellerdover.over gives her a sedative to help her sleep. He tells his son to be brave and grownup and look after his mother, then leaves the house. That night, Kellerdover.over abducts Alexjones.ones at gunpoint while walking his dog, and imprisons him in his father's old abandoned, rundown apartment house. The next morning He shows Franklinbirch, the captured man bound with duct tape Joybirch is horrified as Kellerdover.over starts questioning. Detective Loki researches past unsolved missing children's cases. One is Barrymilland, a boy missing since age 6, 26 years ago. An interview with his mother shows her playing and replaying a VHS tape of him just before his abduction. He interviews Fatherdunn again, in custody. Fatherdunn says the man abducted kids in daylight and took more than one at a time. Loki feels the info is useless. The body is not identified by DNA or missing persons' reports. Kellerdover.over repeatedly beats Alexjones.ones for information, enraged that the man won't say what he did with the girls. During a candlelight vigil for the missing girls, Detective Loki notices a man acting suspicious, but loses him in a chase. That evening Joybirch watches the news item on TV about the man, they show a sketch and the next day he goes to see Kellerdover.over to tell him there is another possible man. Loki and his boss, Capt. O'Malley argue about resources for the continuing hunt. Loki watches the video of Alexjones. interview, he gets a phone call tip. A discount store clerk recognizes him and states that he comes in from time to time to examine children's mannequins and buy children's clothing. The clerk gives Loki the man's license plate to track him down. Franklin is overcome with guilt and tells his wife Nancy what they have done and brings her to see Kellerdover. Kellerdover.over brings her to the apartment where Alexjones.ones is brutally beaten, bloody and tied to the bathroom floor. Shocked, she unties Alexjones.ones and tries to talk to him nicely, but he attempts to escape. Kellerdover.over grabs him. Tied again, Alexjones.ones watches as Kellerdover.over starts building something from plywood. Later, Kellerdover.over then brings the Birches back to the apartment. Kellerdover.over has built an enclosure around the bath tub in which he nails Alexjones. It is devoid of light except for a small PVC tube talkhole. Kellerdover.over says otherwise he would kill the man, and challenges the Birches to let him go. Franklin says it has to stop but does nothing when Nancy tells him to think of Joybirch. While the Birches teen daughter Eliza is in the bath the strange man walks silently in their house. Later the hooded man enters the Dovers house, Grace hears something and jumps out of bed. She finds an open window and believes Anna had come back. Detective Loki arrives writes down her statement of someone coming in through the window. Grace shows him the basement, Kellerdover. well organized workshop. Loki sees a bag of lye and asks Grace where Kellerdover.over is, she says he is out looking for their daughter. In a pouring rain, Loki follows Kellerdover.over, but is made, Kellerdover.over turns back from the apartment and goes to a nearby liquor store instead.Loki wonders what he was doing in the area. Kellerdover.over approaches with a bottle , and asks why he is being followed. He says this is first drink in nine years. Loki urges Kellerdover.over to take care of himself and his wife. It has been six days, Kellerdover.over gets very angry, but then goes home to sleep. He dreams he sees Anna. Loki works at his computer. He reads an old news archive of a suicide, which occurred at 234 Campobello, the same location Kellerdover.over was near. The next day Kellerdover.over tortures Alexjones.ones with alternating scalding and freezing water from the showerhead. Alexjones.ones tries to talk but Kellerdover.over just wants to hear where the girls are. Kellerdover.over kneels to pray. Loki arrives at the boarded up building and enters the ground floor. He finds Kellerdover.over pretending to sleep on the floor. Kellerdover.over gives the policeman a short tour of the ramshackle building, then his cell phone rings with the store clerk, the intruder has been spotted. Loki leaves quickly. Loki confronts Taylor at his home, notices he is strange and forcibly handcuffs hime. He calls it in and searches the house. The walls are covered in drawings of intricate mazes. In a back room, locked boxes are filled with maze books, venomous snakes, and bloody children's clothing. At the police station both the Dovers and Birches identify clothing belonging to their children from the crates, and Taylor confesses to killing them. Taylor is weeping while handcuffed in the interrogation room and draws a maze. Loki watches for awhile then enters. He loses control and beats Taylor during questioning, other cops rush in. Taylor manages to grab one of the officers' gun from his belt and commits suicide. Back at the apartment prison Kellerdover.over sits and recites the Lord's Prayer. At the police station the Captain chides Loki for the death. Kellerdover.over is drinking as Alexjones.ones finally talks and mentions something about finding the girls in a maze. Kellerdover.over goes to the Alexjones home to apologize to Hollyjones for attacking Alexjones.ones at the police station. She invites him in and tells Kellerdover.over her son died of cancer and commiserates. Kellerdover.over says he dreams of Anna in a maze. Hollyjones also mentions her husband kept snakes. A newspaper headline grabs Kellerdover.over's attention, the report of Taylor's suicide. Capt. O'Malley tries to tell Loki to get over it, you can't win them all and to find a girlfriend. Loki goes to his workstation in a rage. In a pile of photos he notices a picture of a maze similar to the one Taylor was drawing. Back at Taylor's house another cop reveals the blood on the children's clothes is later found to be pig's blood. Taylor is now felt to be a fake killer copying a book titled The Invisible Man which prominently features mazes, especially a circular maze which Taylor was drawing while in custody. Loki can't figure out how Taylor had the missing girl's clothes. He returns to the Kellerdover.over's house and finds a small sock in the bushes. Someone calls Grace and she excitedly finds Kellerdover. Joybirch.irch has been found wandering, drugged and is hospitalized. Kellerdover.over tries to question the young girl. Anna remains missing. In her drugged state, Joybirch.irch rambles that Kellerdover.over was there, giving the people around her the impression that Kellerdover.over is somehow in on it. Kellerdover.over rushes off as Loki chases him in the hospital, then to a car chase outside. Loki loses Kellerdover. but heads towards Kellerdover.s apartment building and discovers the imprisoned Alexjones. Kellerdover.over has gone to Hollyjones's, with a tool belt and offering to do some penance for his behaviour. Hollyjones once again is friendly and invites him in for a tea. Kellerdover.over confronts her about the girls but the woman holds him at gunpoint and forces him to put on handcuffs and consume the same sedative used to drug Anna and Joybirch. At gubnpoint she directs him to an old car outside . She reveals that she and her husband had been religious people, like Kellerdover. until their son died of cancer at a young age. Hollyjones and her husband decided to make a war on God by making children disappear without a trace to turn their parents into demons, as evidenced by what Kellerdover.over had become. Her husband then disappeared and she does what she can. She orders Kellerdover.over to drive slowly, and tells him Alexjones.ones never touched the girls. The car had been covering a pit, Hollyjones tries to force him in and shoots him in the leg, he drops into the hole. She closes the lid and parks the car again over the lid. The Capt. tells Loki to go to Hollyjones's and let her know about Alexjones. With a small flashlight Kellerdover.over explores his dungeon. He finds his daughter's whistle, and prays for Anna's safety. Loki arrives. Hollyjones goes to a locked room to get Anna. Loki enters the house and sees an old photo of Alexjones.ones and his RV. He then creeps toward a noise. Hollyjones is injecting the girl with a syringe and Loki demands she stop, they both fire their weapons. Hollyjones is killed and a wounded,bloody Loki races the girl to the hospital. The next morning a bandaged Loki reads a newspaper, the headline says Barrymilland, aka Alexjones.ones has been reunited with his family. Grace comes in and says Anna will be fine, the Birches and Dovers leave. Grace says Kellerdover.over still hasn't contacted her, she realizes Kellerdover.over will be going to jail when caught. At night, at the Alexjones house the CSI techs say they have found some dead snakes but the ground is frozen. They leave for the night. Loki stays behind for a while then hears a whistle.