In a Phoenix hotel room on a Friday afternoon, Normanmetmarion.ranejanetleigh and her outoftown lover Samloomisjohngavin end a stolen lunchtime interlude with yet another disagreement about their future. Normanmetmarion wants to marry Samloomisjohngavin, but debts inherited from his father and his own alimony payments do not leave him enough money to support her as he would like. As they have done so often before on Samloomisjohngavin's business trips to Phoenix, they part leaving their future uncertain.  Normanmetmarion returns to the real estate office where she works as a secretary, arriving just ahead of her boss Mr. Loweryvaughntaylor and his client Cassidyfrankalbertson who buys a house from Loweryvaughntaylor with 40,000 in cash. Loweryvaughntaylor tells Normanmetmarion to put the money in the safe deposit box at the bank until Monday. Pleading a headache, Normanmetmarion asks to take the rest of the day off after her errand to the bank.  But Normanmetmarion doesn't go to the bank. On the spur of the moment, she decides to keep the money, packs a suitcase, and starts driving out of town, only to be spotted by her boss at an intersection where he gives her a suspicious look. Worried that she has been found out already, she still proceeds out of town on her way to Fairvale, California, where Samloomisjohngavin lives. All the while she keeps looking behind her, fearful that she's being followed. She drives well into the night and parks alongside the road to sleep.  In the morning, a highway patrolman Mortmills stops to investigate her stopped car, and awakens her. Startled and nervous, she arouses the patrolman's suspicions. He looks at her license and registration, taking note of the plate number. He allows her to go on, but follows her for a while, which intensifies Normanmetmarion.s agitation.  Realizing that her car can easily give her away, Normanmetmarion decides to trade it in for a different car. She stops in at a used car lot, hurriedly pays the salesman Johnanderson 700 cash for a likely substitute, and completes the deal as the same highway patrolman watches from across the street. Nervous, she drives away and continues toward Fairvale.  As night falls on this second night, with her fears of pursuit crowding in around her, she drives into a rainstorm. Unable to see the road clearly, she spots the lighted sign of the Motherbates.ates Motel, and decides to take a room for the night. As there are no other cars there, and no one in the motel office, she honks her horn upon seeing a light on in the house behind the motel, and a silhouette in the window a young man soon comes down the path to greet her, and he introduces himself as Normanbates.ates Anthony Perkins. He is a softspoken and shy young man who tells Normanmetmarion that he lives in the large house with his mother. The motel seldom has guests anymore since the new interstate bypassed the local highway, and Normanmetmarion realizes that she probably took a wrong turn in the storm. Still nervous about being tracked by the police, Normanmetmarion registers under a false name, and Normanbates.ates checks her into cabin 1 just next to the office. When she asks about food, Normanmetmarion learns that Fairvale is only fifteen miles away.  Normanbates.ates offers to share his supper with her so she doesn't have to go out again in the rain, and he goes back to the house. She begins unpacking, taking time to repack the money inside a newspaper which she sets aside on the bed table. Then she overhears a shouted argument between Normanbates.ates and his mother coming from the house. Motherbates.ates seems to have a low opinion of beautiful young women, and doesn't want Normanbates.ates associating with them. He brings sandwiches and milk back to the office where Normanmetmarion joins him in the parlor just behind the checkin desk.  Normanmetmarion is taken aback by Normanbates.s stuffed birds that fill the parlor, a product of his taxidermy hobby. In their conversation over sandwiches, Normanbates.ates talks about being trapped. Just as Normanmetmarion presently feels trapped by her guilt, Normanbates.ates is more permanently trapped in his coexistence with his mother and her madness. But as Normanbates.ates observes, we all go a little mad sometimes. Taking Normanbates.s situation as a cautionary tale, Normanmetmarion decides to return to Phoenix to make amends, and try to pull herself out of the trap she's gotten herself into before it's too late.  When Normanmetmarion goes back to her room, Normanbates.ates takes down a picture from the wall and looks through a peephole where he can watch Normanmetmarion changing. With a new burst of intensity, Normanbates.ates hurries up the hill and goes into the house.  In her room, Normanmetmarion sits in her robe and calculates some figures, working out how she can repay the 700 she has already spent. Then she tears up the paper containing the figures, and flushes the pieces down the toilet. With newfound peace of mind, she slips out of her robe and slippers, and steps into the tub to enjoy a cleansing shower.  Unseen behind her, the bathroom door opens. A figure approaches and pulls back the shower curtain. It is the shadowy figure of an old woman wielding a large kitchen knife. Normanmetmarion screams. The blade lifts high into the air, and then strikes, and strikes again, and again. Normanmetmarion cannot escape the slicing blows of the knife. The savage attack continues, over and over again, and then her killer leaves, the job done. Normanmetmarion sinks down, reaching for the shower curtain which rips down around her, and she falls over the edge of the tub. The shower continues to run over her, and her diluted lifeblood flows away down the tub drain, her lifeless eyes fixed in a final hopeless stare.  From the house, Normanbates.s voice yells out in shock, Motherbates.ates Oh, God Motherbates.ates Blood Blood He comes running down the hill and into Normanmetmarion.s cabin to find the aftermath of Motherbates.s knife attack. He quickly cleans up the murder scene. He wraps Normanmetmarion.s body in the shower curtain and places her in the trunk of her car, and gathers her belongings into the trunk as well. At the last moment he spots the newspaper on the bed table and tosses it into the trunk, not knowing that it contains the stolen money. He drives to a swamp near the motel, where he pushes the car in and watches it slowly disappear into the dark bog.  One week later, Samloomisjohngavin is sitting in the back office of his hardware store in Fairvale, writing a note to Normanmetmarion. He has changed his mind, and if it's not too late he wants to marry her right away even if his finances are limited right now. Normanmetmarion.s sister, Lilacraneveramiles, comes into the store and asks if Normanmetmarion is there. Samloomisjohngavin tells her she isn't. A private investigator named Arbogastmartinbalsam.artinbalsam also enters the store and asks for Normanmetmarion.s whereabouts. His interest is in recovering the stolen 40,000, which Lilacraneveramiles knew about, but Samloomisjohngavin did not. Arbogastmartinbalsam.artinbalsam is convinced that Normanmetmarion is somewhere in this town close to her boyfriend, so he sets out on a search of hotels and boarding houses around Fairvale to track her down.  When Arbogastmartinbalsam.artinbalsam gets to the Motherbates.ates Motel, Normanbates.ates tells him he hasn't seen Normanmetmarion. and that there haven't been any guests in weeks. But Arbogastmartinbalsam.artinbalsam manages to look at the register and sees the false signature in Normanmetmarion.s handwriting. Caught in his lie that here hadn't been any recent guests, Normanbates.ates admits to remembering her now, and says she stayed that Saturday night and left early on Sunday morning. Arbogastmartinbalsam.artinbalsam spots Motherbates.s silhouette sitting at the window of the house and asks to see her, but Normanbates.ates refuses, saying that his mother is an invalid and shouldn't be disturbed. When Normanbates.ates lets slip his Motherbates.s impressions of Normanmetmarion. Arbogastmartinbalsam.artinbalsam becomes determined to talk to her, but Normanbates.ates insists that he leave.  Arbogastmartinbalsam.artinbalsam phones Samloomisjohngavin and Lilacraneveramiles to tell them that Normanmetmarion had registered the previous Saturday night at the Motherbates.ates Motel in cabin 1, and that he means to sneak back and talk to Mrs. Motherbates.ates regardless of Normanbates.s objections. When he gets back to the motel, Arbogastmartinbalsam.artinbalsam looks into the office and the parlor briefly to see if Normanbates.ates is there, and takes a quick look into the motel safe which is standing open. Then he heads up to the house and goes inside. Sensing that no one is downstairs, he starts up the stairs. As he nears the top of the stairs, Motherbates.ates emerges from the bedroom and stabs him. He stumbles backwards down the stairs and falls to the floor, where he is set upon and stabbed yet again.  At the hardware store, Lilacraneveramiles and Samloomisjohngavin have been waiting for Arbogastmartinbalsam. and they are now out of patience. They expected Arbogastmartinbalsam.artinbalsam to be back three hours ago, so they decide to look for him. Samloomisjohngavin tells Lilacraneveramiles to stay behind while he goes out to the motel. When he gets there, he calls out but no one answers. Normanbates. standing by the swamp, hears Samloomisjohngavin call out for Arbogastmartinbalsam.  Samloomisjohngavin returns to the store, having seen no one at the motel or the house. No Arbogastmartinbalsam. no Motherbates.ates. only a sick old lady unable or unwilling to answer the door. Samloomisjohngavin suggests they go see Sheriff Chambers Johnmcintire to report the missing Arbogastmartinbalsam. At the sheriff's house, Chambers and his wife Lurenetuttle listen to Samloomisjohngavin and Lilacraneveramiles tell their story. At their urging, Chambers phones the motel and talks to Normanbates. who says that the detective had been there but had left. When Lilacraneveramiles presses Chambers about the mother, Chambers tells them that Normanbates.s mother has been dead and buried for the past ten years, having poisoned her lover and herself in the only murdersuicide in Fairvale's living memory. But Samloomisjohngavin and Lilacraneveramiles insist that there is an old woman out there, and that Arbogastmartinbalsam.artinbalsam had told them that Normanbates.ates wouldn't let Arbogastmartinbalsam.artinbalsam see his mother because she was too ill. That makes the sheriff wonder, if Normanbates.s mother is up there at the motel, then who is buried in that grave in Green Lawn Cemetery  Normanbates.ates is worried about all the people who have been snooping around. His concerns lead to another unseen argument with Motherbates.ates in which he tells her she should hide in the fruit cellar for a few days. She refuses. Normanbates.ates says he will pick her up and carry her downstairs. She berates him, and insists she could walk if she wanted to, but she doesn't want to. In spite of Motherbates.s protests, Normanbates.ates carries his mother down the stairs.  The next morning, Sunday morning, Lilacraneveramiles and Samloomisjohngavin meet Sheriff and Mrs. Chambers coming out of church. The sheriff has already been to the motel before church services. Normanbates.ates is alone out there, he says. He saw the whole place. The detective has probably just moved on to pursue a lead without telling them. He suggests that Lilacraneveramiles report a missing person and a theft, and let the law find her sister. And with that, the Chambers go their way. Unsatisfied, Lilacraneveramiles and Samloomisjohngavin decide to go out to the motel for themselves. Their plan is to register as husband and wife and check into a cabin. Then they will search every inch of the place, inside and out.  Normanbates.ates assigns them to cabin 10, and Samloomisjohngavin insists on signing the register. As he pays and asks Normanbates.ates for a receipt, Lilacraneveramiles takes the key and goes ahead toward their cabin. On the way she checks that the door to cabin 1 is unlocked. After a brief stop in cabin 10 to talk matters over, and after they are sure Normanbates.ates is not nearby, Samloomisjohngavin and Lilacraneveramiles enter cabin 1 to search for clues. The only thing they can find is a scrap of paper with something subtracted from 40,000, proving Normanmetmarion had been there. But that was never in doubt. Lilacraneveramiles wants to talk to the old woman, because she must have told Arbogastmartinbalsam.artinbalsam something. She wants Samloomisjohngavin to distract Normanbates.ates while she goes to the house. Samloomisjohngavin tries to dissuade her, but she insists she can handle a sick old woman.  Samloomisjohngavin finds Normanbates.ates in the office and starts talking with him, while Lilacraneveramiles circles around behind the motel to the house. She goes in and looks through all the rooms upstairs. She goes into Motherbates.s bedroom, a scene of oldfashioned lavishness gone to ruin. The outline of the woman's body is deeply impressed into the old mattress. She looks into Normanbates.s bedroom, a little boy's room frozen in time.  Meanwhile, Samloomisjohngavin has been trying to get Normanbates.ates to talk about money, looking for some indication that Normanbates.ates has the stolen cash. Normanbates.ates begins to grow agitated. When Samloomisjohngavin suggests that Normanbates.s mother might know something about the 40,000, Normanbates.ates begins to realize that his other guest may be snooping around at the house. Samloomisjohngavin tries to keep Normanbates.ates from leaving, and they struggle. Normanbates.ates knocks Samloomisjohngavin over the head, and Samloomisjohngavin falls dazed to the floor.  Lilacraneveramiles is just coming down the stairs when she sees Normanbates.ates running toward the front door. She ducks around behind the stairs and partway down the cellar steps to avoid him. Normanbates.ates heads upstairs. Lilacraneveramiles starts to come back up, when she notices the cellar door at the bottom of the steps. This is a room she hasn't examined yet, and she risks the opportunity to look into it.  Walking through a storage room and into the barren fruit cellar beyond it, she sees an old woman sitting in a chair facing the far wall. She whispers, Mrs. Motherbates.ates. But the woman doesn't respond. She taps the woman on the shoulder. The chair swivels around to reveal the desiccated remains of an old woman's corpse, her face contorted into a nearskeletal grin and seemingly staring out of eyeless sockets.  Lilacraneveramiles screams and turns away, and her flinching reaction sets the bare hanging light bulb to swinging. At that moment, the living semblance of an old woman enters at the door wielding a large knife, blocking the only escape route from the cellar. In the next moment, Samloomisjohngavin's timely arrival saves Lilacraneveramiles, as he subdues the wouldbe assailant from behind. The woman's wig falls away to reveal Normanbates.ates dressed in the guise of his mother.  Lilacraneveramiles, Samloomisjohngavin, and Sheriff Chambers are among a bewildered group of interested persons who sit in an office in the County Court House, waiting to hear from a psychiatrist who has been called in to examine Normanbates. The psychiatrist Simonoakland enters to tell them he has gotten the whole story, but not from Normanbates. He got it from Normanbates.s Motherbates. As a personality, Normanbates.ates no longer exists. The other half, the Motherbates.ates half of Normanbates.s mind has taken over, probably for all time.  Years ago, he tells them, after the disturbing death of Normanbates.s father, Normanbates.ates came to depend on the undivided attention of his mother. But when she took a lover, the already deranged Normanbates.ates felt as if he had been replaced. His jealousy could not stand to share her. So he poisoned both his mother and her lover. Instead of letting her be buried, he stole the corpse and treated it to preserve it as best he could.  His crime of matricide overwhelmed his already fragile mind, and he began to divide his mind with his mother, to give her back part of the life he had stolen from her. He went to great lengths to preserve the illusion that she was still alive so that he could deny to himself that he had killed her. He began to think and speak for her. He walked around wearing her clothes and a woman's wig to further enhance the illusion. At times he could be both personalities and carry on both sides of conversations. Other times, the Motherbates.ates half, the dominant half, took over completely. He was never all Normanbates. but he was often only Motherbates.  And because he was so pathologically jealous of her, he assumed she was just as jealous of him and would not let him be attracted to other women. When Normanbates.etmarion, he felt a strong attraction to her. That attraction set off the jealous Motherbates. and it was Motherbates.ates who killed Normanmetmarion. the latest in a series of young women to meet a similar fate. Afterwards, Normanbates.ates would return as if from a sleep and dutifully clean up after Motherbates.s crimes, sinking all evidence into the swamp near the motel. But now it looks as if Motherbates.ates has won the inevitable battle that always develops between multiple personalities, and has driven Normanbates.ates out completely.  In a locked and guarded room, the physical shell of Normanbates.ates sits unmoving as Motherbates.s thoughts dominate the mind, free of Normanbates.s mental presence. She regrets that she had to condemn her own son, but she couldn't let him say that she had killed those people. As if she could commit murder. As if she could do anything except just sit and stare. She knows they must be watching her. But she'll show them what kind of person she is. She won't move a muscle. She won't even swat that fly. Then they'll see. They'll say, Why she wouldn't even harm a fly And with that, she stares ahead motionlessly as her face contorts into a nearskeletal grin.  In a final image, a tow chain begins pulling Normanmetmarion.s car out of the bog.  END OF FILM