Late one morning in the Hawthorne Grill, a restaurant on Sunset Boulevard in Los Angeles, a couple of young Brits called Honey Bunnyamandaplummer and Pumpkintimroth.imroth discuss the pros and cons of robbing banks versus liquor stores. Then they add restaurants to the equation, realizing they can make more by taking customers' wallets than they get out of the till. They stand up in their booth and announce that they're robbing the diner.  Earlier in the day, Juleswinnfieldsamuell. Jackson and Vincentvega John Travolta arrive at a San Fernando Valley apartment building. They are hit men in the employ of Marselluswallacevingrhames and have come to retrieve a valuable belonging of Marselluswallacevingrhames's from a group of wouldbe crooks led by a young and naive guy named Brettfrankwhaley.rankwhaley. They take back the valuable item  kept in a briefcase, it glows warmly and transfixes whoever looks at it. Juleswinnfieldsamuell recites what he claims is a Bible verse, Ezekiel 2517, before he and Vincentvegajohntravolta execute Brettfrankwhaley.   Story 1 Vincentvega And Marselluswallacevingrhames's Wife  At his strip club, Marselluswallacevingrhames Ving Rhames pays boxer Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.oolidgebrucewillis to throw his next fight. Juleswinnfieldsamuell and Vincentvegajohntravolta arrive though it's only a few hours after their visit to the Valley, the two hit men are sporting gym clothes in place of the suits they wore earlier in the day. While Juleswinnfieldsamuell heads to the men's room, Vincentvegajohntravolta goes to the bar and encounters Butchcoolidgebrucewillis. The men take an instant dislike to each other. Vincentvegajohntravolta insults Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.oolidgebrucewillis but before Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.oolidgebrucewillis can retaliate, Marselluswallacevingrhames calls Vincentvegajohntravolta over and embraces him. Marselluswallacevingrhames is leaving town that evening and Vincentvegajohntravolta is to take Marselluswallacevingrhames' wife, Miaumathurman.mathurman, out for dinner to keep her entertained. Rumors abound that Marselluswallacevingrhames gravely wounded another associate, Antoine, who he believed had been improperly friendly with Miaumathurman. so Vincentvegajohntravolta is nervous. Before picking Miaumathurman.mathurman up, he visits his drug dealer, Lanceericstoltz, and buys some highquality heroin. Properly sedated, he escorts the cocaineaddicted, chainsmoking Miaumathurman.mathurman to Jackrabbitslim's, a West Hollywood 1950sthemed restaurant. After some small talk about European travel, Miaumathurman.s failed acting career, foot massage, and the rumors about Antoine , Miaumathurman.mathurman enters herself and Vincentvegajohntravolta in a dance contest. They dance the twist and win an award. After dinner, they return to the Wallaces' home. Vincentvegajohntravolta goes to the bathroom to talk himself out of making a pass at Miaumathurman. Meanwhile, she discovers the baggie of heroin in his coat pocket and, assuming it's cocaine, snorts some. She immediately passes out and begins to foam at the mouth. Panicked, Vincentvegajohntravolta takes the dying Miaumathurman.mathurman to Lance's where they argue about what to do with her. Following Lance's advice, Vincentvegajohntravolta is able to revive her with a shot of adrenaline administered straight to the heart. Vincentvegajohntravolta takes Miaumathurman.mathurman home. They agree not to tell Marselluswallacevingrhames what happened since both of them would get in trouble for it.   Story 2 The Gold Watch  The following night, before his fight, Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.oolidgebrucewillis dreams of an incident from his childhood Back at his Tennessee home in 1973, Captain Koonschristopherwalken visited Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.oolidgebrucewillis to bring him a gold watch. The watch had belonged to Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.s greatgrandfather, who took it to World War I with him. Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.s grandfather had taken it to World War II, and Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.s father to Vietnam. Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.s father died as a POW, but gave the watch to Koonschristopherwalken to return to Butchcoolidgebrucewillis. Koonschristopherwalken says that he and Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.s father had to hide the watch in their rectums to keep it away from their captors.  Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.oolidgebrucewillis wakes from the dream. Instead of throwing the match , he fights so viciously that he kills his opponent. He took Marselluswallacevingrhames' money and bet it on himself his winnings will amount to a small fortune. Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.oolidgebrucewillis makes small talk with Esmareldaangelajones, the driver of the cab he is in, who reveals that she knows he's the boxer who killed his opponent she seems fascinated with the topic of death. Esmarelda drives Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.oolidgebrucewillis to the seedy motel where he and his French girlfriend, Fabiennemariademedeiros, are staying, having abandoned their apartment. In the morning they will travel to Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.s hometown of Knoxville, Tennessee, claim their winnings, and leave the country. While packing the next morning, however, Fabiennemariademedeiros reveals that she forgot the gold watch, the belonging Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.oolidgebrucewillis cherishes above all others. After a savage outburst in which he wrecks the motel room, Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.oolidgebrucewillis takes Fabiennemariademedeiros's car to get the watch, parking a few blocks away and walking through a vacant lot to his apartment building as a precaution. He enters without incident and finds his wristwatch in the bedroom. He realizes he's not alone in the apartment when he notices a submachine gun in the kitchen. Catching Vincentvegajohntravolta off guard as he emerges from the bathroom, Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.oolidgebrucewillis kills him with the gun he found.  Leaving the apartment with his watch, Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.oolidgebrucewillis encounters Marselluswallacevingrhames crossing the street. He tries to run Marselluswallacevingrhames over with his car but only wounds him and is hit by another car himself. Both are injured and Marselluswallacevingrhames chases Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.oolidgebrucewillis into a pawn shop. There, the owner, Maynardduanewhitaker, overpowers them. Marselluswallacevingrhames and Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.oolidgebrucewillis wake up in the basement of the pawn shop, bound and gagged. Maynardduanewhitaker has called his cousin Zedpetergreene, who works as a security guard. Maynardduanewhitaker and Zed are apparently a pair of redneck serial killers who kill passersby who happen into their store. While the Gimp Stephenhibbert, a huge manchild dressed head to toe in black leather fetish gear, watches Butchcoolidgebrucewillis. Maynardduanewhitaker and Zed take Marselluswallacevingrhames into the next room and begin to rape him. Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.oolidgebrucewillis escapes and knocks out the Gimp. Rather than leave the pawn shop, he procures a samurai sword and rescues Marselluswallacevingrhames in the process, Maynardduanewhitaker is killed and Zed emasculated by a shotgun blast. Marselluswallacevingrhames stays behind to oversee the tortureexecution of Zed , but promises that as long as Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.oolidgebrucewillis never mentions what happened and never returns to Los Angeles, Marselluswallacevingrhames will forget that Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.oolidgebrucewillis betrayed him in the boxing ring. Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.oolidgebrucewillis agrees. In the final scene, Butchcoolidgebrucewillis.oolidgebrucewillis and Fabiennemariademedeiros leave town on Zed's chopperstyle motorcycle.   Story 3 The Bonnie Situation  Three days earlier, flashing back in time to just after Vincentvegajohntravolta and Juleswinnfieldsamuell finish killing Brettfrankwhaley.rankwhaley for stealing Marselluswallacevingrhames' prized possession, a gang member they had not known about bursts out of the bathroom and empties his gun point blank at them. However, all of the bullets miss Vincentvegajohntravolta and Juleswinnfieldsamuell, hitting the wall behind them, so they kill the gang member. Juleswinnfieldsamuell is certain this is a miracle but Vincentvegajohntravolta dismisses the idea. They leave with Marvinphillamarr, Marselluswallacevingrhames' inside man in the gang. In the car, Vincentvegajohntravolta asks Marvinphillamarr if he believes in miracles, but accidentally shoots him in the head and kills him. The inside of the car is now covered in blood and brain matter. Juleswinnfieldsamuell drives to the house of his only friend in the Valley, a former colleague named Jimmiequentintarantino. Jimmiequentintarantino lets them hide the car but angrily tells them that they have to get rid of the body within an hour  before his wife Bonnie comes home from her night shift at a hospital. Juleswinnfieldsamuell calls Marselluswallacevingrhames at his home to explain their predicament. Marselluswallacevingrhames then calls Winstonwolfharveykeitel, a suave and professional criminal and gambler who solves problems. Winstonwolfharveykeitel arrives at Jimmiequentintarantino's house and tells Vincentvegajohntravolta and Juleswinnfieldsamuell how to clean up the car and themselves  they have to strip out of their business suits and wear Jimmiequentintarantino's spare Tshirts and shorts   then helps them dispose of the car and body at a junkyard belonging to a discreet friend named Monsterjoe, whose daughter is Mr. Winstonwolfharveykeitel's girlfriend.  With the whole situation resolved, Juleswinnfieldsamuell and Vincentvegajohntravolta decide to have breakfast at the Hawthorne Grill, where they continue their discussion about miracles. Juleswinnfieldsamuell reveals his plan to leave his criminal life and travel the globe as a mendicant, helping those suffering under tyranny. Vincentvegajohntravolta mocks him, then goes to the bathroom. Just then Honey Bunny and Pumpkintimroth.imroth  begin their robbery of the diner. They collect the cash from the register and the patrons' wallets. Juleswinnfieldsamuell gives Pumpkintimroth.imroth his wallet, but when Pumpkintimroth.imroth tries to take Marselluswallacevingrhames' briefcase, Juleswinnfieldsamuell pulls his gun and disarms Pumpkintimroth. While Vincentvegajohntravolta holds Honey Bunny at bay, Juleswinnfieldsamuell explains to Pumpkintimroth.imroth how, even earlier that morning, he would have killed Pumpkintimroth.imroth and Honey Bunny without a second thought. He recites his ersatz version of Ezekiel 2517 again The path of the righteous man is beset on all sides by the iniquities of the selfish and the tyranny of evil men. Blessed is he who in the name of charity and good will shepherds the weak through the valley of darkness, for he is truly his brother's keeper and the finder of lost children. And I will strike down upon thee with great vengeance and furious anger those who attempt to poison and destroy my brothers. And you will know my name is the Lord when I lay my vengeance upon you.  Juleswinnfieldsamuell explains that while he previously thought it was cool to make such a coldblooded passage the last thing his victims heard, he now realizes that the tyranny of evil men part of the passage refers to him, and he intends to become a better person. He and Vincentvegajohntravolta allow Honey Bunny and Pumpkintimroth.imroth to leave with all the money but not the briefcase. They leave the diner themselves and head to Marselluswallacevingrhames' strip club.