The film opens in 1964, where an older and fatter Jakelamotta  practices his standup comic routine before his debut at a comedy nightclub. A flashback shifts to his boxing career in 1941 against his opponent, Jimmyreeves, in the infamous Cleveland bout. Losing the fight by a fixed result causes a fight to break out at the end of the match. Jakelamotta's brother Joeylamotta.amotta  is not only a sparring partner to him but also responsible for organizing his fights.  Joeylamotta.amotta discusses a potential shot for the title with one of his mob connections, Salvybatts , on the way to his brother's house in their neighborhood in the Bronx. When they are finally settled in the house, Jakelamotta admits that he does not have much faith in his own abilities. Accompanied by his brother to the local openair swimming pool, a restless Jakelamotta spots a 15yearold girl named Vickie  at the edge of the pool. Although he has to be reminded by his brother he is already married, the opportunity to invite her out for the day very soon comes true when Joeylamotta.amotta gives in.  Jakelamotta has two fights with Sugarrayrobinson, set two years apart, and Jakelamotta loses the second when the judges rule in favor of Sugarray because he was leaving the sport temporarily for conscription in the United States Army. This does not deter Jakelamotta from winning six straight fights, but as his fears grow about his wife, Vickie, having feelings for other men, particularly Tonyjaniro, the opponent for his forthcoming fight, he is keen enough to show off his sexual jealously when he beats him in front of the local Mob boss, Tommycomo  and Vickie.  The recent triumph over Tonyjaniro is touted as a major boost for the belt as Joeylamotta.amotta discusses this with journalists, though Joeylamotta.amotta is briefly distracted by seeing Vickie approach a table with Salvy and his crew. Joeylamotta.amotta has a word with Vickie, who says she is giving up on his brother. Blaming Salvy, Joeylamotta.amotta viciously attacks him in a fight that spills outside of the club. When Tommycomo hears that the two of them rose fists in a public place, he orders them to apologize and tells Joeylamotta.amotta that he means business.  At the swimming pool, Joeylamotta.amotta tells Jakelamotta that if he really wants a shot, he will have to take a dive first. In the fight against Billyfox, Jakelamotta does not even bother to put up a fight. Jakelamotta is suspended from the board on suspicion of throwing the fight, though he realizes the error of his judgment when it is too late. This does little to harm his career, when he finally wins the title against Marcelcerdan at the open air Briggs Stadium.  Three years pass and Jakelamotta asks his brother if he fought with Salvy at the Copca because of Vickie. Jakelamotta then asks if Joeylamotta.amotta had an affair with his wife. Joeylamotta.amotta refuses to answer and decides to leave. Jakelamotta decides to find the truth for himself, interrogating his wife about the affair when she sarcastically states that she had sex with the entire neighborhood  and sucked his brothers cock after he knocks down the bathroom door where his wife is briefly hiding from him.  Running straight towards his brother's house, he starts a fight with Joeylamotta. Defending his championship belt against Laurentdauthuille, he makes a call to his brother after the fight, but when Joeylamotta.amotta assumes Salvy is on the other end, Jakelamotta says nothing. This drags Jakelamotta down to when he eventually loses to Sugarrayrobinson on their final  encounter, letting Sugarray land several hard blows on him as punishment for what he did.  A couple of years later, in the middle of a photo shoot, Jakelamotta surrounded by his wife and children, tells the journalists he is officially retired and that he has bought a new property. After staying all night at his new nightclub in Miami, Vickie tells him she wants a divorce . Arrested for introducing underage girls  to men, he serves a jail sentence after failing to raise the bribe money by taking the jewels out of his championship belt instead of selling the belt itself.  In his jail cell, Jakelamotta brutally pounds the walls whilst sorrowfully questioning his misfortune, as he sits alone crying in despair. Returning to New York City after serving his sentence, he meets up with his estranged brother Joeylamotta.amotta in a garage parking lot where they share a nervous hug.  Going back to the beginning sequence, Jakelamotta refers to the I coulda' have been a contender scene from On the Waterfront complaining that his brother should have been there for him but is also keen enough to give himself some slack. Darting across the room at the information of the crowded auditorium by the stage hand, the camera remains pivoted on the mirror as LaMotta chants I'm the boss whilst shadow boxing.  The film ends on an ambiguous note with a Biblical quote All I know is this Once I was blind, and now I can see. symbolizing that even men like LaMotta can be redeemed.