The film begins with a female voiceover Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again, to images of a ruined country manor.  The heroine is a very young  woman , a paid companion to the wealthy but obnoxious Edythevanhopper . The heroine meets the aristocratic widower Maximiliandewinter  in Monte Carlo. They fall in love, and within two weeks they are married.  Maximiliandewinter takes his new bride to Manderley, his country house in Cornwall, England. The housekeeper, Mrs. Danvers , is domineering and cold, and is obsessed with the great beauty, intelligence and sophistication of the first Mrs. de Winterthe eponymous Rebeccaand preserves her former bedroom as a shrine. Rebecca's sleazy cousin Jackfavell  appears at the house when Maximiliandewinter is away.  The new Mrs. de Winter is intimidated by her responsibilities and begins to doubt her relationship with her husband. The continuous reminders of Rebecca overwhelm her she believes that Maximiliandewinter is still deeply in love with Rebecca. She also discovers that her husband sometimes becomes very angry at her for apparently innocent actions.  Trying to be the perfect wife, the young Mrs. de Winter convinces Maximiliandewinter to hold a costume party as he did with Rebecca. The heroine tries to plan her own costume, but Mrs. Danvers suggests she copy the beautiful outfit in the portrait of Carolinedewinter, an ancestor. At the party, when the costume is revealed to Maximiliandewinter he is appalled Rebecca wore the same outfit at their ball a year ago, shortly before she died. The heroine confronts Danvers, who tells her she can never take Rebecca's place, and almost manages to convince her to jump to her death. A sudden commotion reveals that a ship is sinking.  The heroine rushes outside, where she hears that during the rescue a sunken boat has been found with Rebecca's body in it. Maximiliandewinter admits that he had earlier misidentified another body as Rebecca's, in order to conceal the truth. At the very beginning of their marriage Rebecca had told Maximiliandewinter she intended to continue the promiscuous and perverse sex life she had led before the marriage. He hated her but they agreed to an arrangement she would act as the perfect wife and hostess in public, and he would ignore Rebecca's privately conducted affairs. Rebecca grew careless and complacent in her dealings, including an ongoing affair with her cousin Jackfavell. One night, Rebecca informed Maximiliandewinter that she was pregnant with Jackfavell's child. During the ensuing heated argument she fell, hit her head and died. Maximiliandewinter took the body out in a boat which he then scuttled.  Shedding the remnants of her girlish innocence, Maximiliandewinter's wife coaches her husband on how to conceal the mode of Rebecca's death from the authorities. In the police investigation, deliberate damage to the boat points to suicide. Jackfavell shows Maximiliandewinter a note from Rebecca which seems to indicate she was not suicidal. Jackfavell then tries to blackmail Maximiliandewinter, but Maximiliandewinter tells the police. Maximiliandewinter is now under suspicion of murder. The investigation then focuses on Rebecca's secret visit to a London doctor , which Jackfavell assumes was due to her illicit pregnancy. However, the coroner's interview with the doctor reveals that Rebecca was mistaken in believing herself pregnant instead she had a latestage cancer.  The doctor's evidence persuades the coroner to render a finding of suicide. Only Frankcrawley , Maximiliandewinter, and his wife will know the full story that Rebecca lied to Maximiliandewinter about being pregnant with another man's child in order to goad him into killing her, an indirect means of suicide. As Maximiliandewinter returns home from London to Manderley, he finds the manor on fire, set alight by the deranged Mrs. Danvers. The second Mrs. de Winter and the staff manage to escape the blaze, but Danvers dies in the flames.