Harrygoldfarbjaredleto and Tyronelovemarlonwayans are two friends who live in Brooklyn, New York. They regularly do various drugs paid for by such petty thefts as Harrygoldfarbjaredleto pawning his mother's TV set. Saragoldfarbellenburstyn, Harrygoldfarbjaredleto's mother, is a widow living alone in Brighton Beach who must regularly buy back her TV set from the pawn shop owner, Aberabinowitzmarkmargolis. Aberabinowitzmarkmargolis tries to get Saragoldfarbellenburstyn to turn Harrygoldfarbjaredleto in, but she doesn't have the heart for it, as Harrygoldfarbjaredleto is all she has left after the death of her husband, Seymour, twenty years prior.  Harrygoldfarbjaredleto and Tyrone eventually come up with a plan to make money by reselling heroin on the street so that they can get away from their deadend lives. Over the summer, they make a fair amount of money. They talk regularly about buying a pound of extremely pure heroin as their 'big score' that will give them comfortable lives when they invest that money in a legal business.  Marionsilverjenniferconnelly.ilverjenniferconnelly, who is Harrygoldfarbjaredleto's girlfriend, has a distant relationship with her parents , but sometimes goes out with Arnoldseangullette, her psychiatrist, in order to appease them. She, along with Harrygoldfarbjaredleto and Tyrone, snort and shoot heroin and cocaine, drop speed, and talk a lot about their dreams for a better future. As Harrygoldfarbjaredleto starts earning money, he and Marionsilverjenniferconnelly.ilverjenniferconnelly talk about opening a clothing store where Marionsilverjenniferconnelly.ilverjenniferconnelly can earn a living as a clothing designer.  Meanwhile, Saragoldfarbellenburstyn is a TV junkie, obsessed with an infomercial hosted by selfhelp guru Tappytibbonschristophermcdonald, based on the acronym JUICE . One day she receives a mysterious call from someone who claims that she has been selected to appear on a TV show. Thinking she's being invited to appear on the Tappy Tibbons infomercial, Saragoldfarbellenburstyn is suddenly obsessed with the idea of flaunting Harrygoldfarbjaredleto on the show before a national audience. She wants to wear a particular red dress that she wore at Harrygoldfarbjaredleto's high school graduation a dress that Seymour loved to see her in. However, she is now too overweight to fit into it. One of Saragoldfarbellenburstyn's friends, with whom she sometimes sits outside her apartment, gives her a diet book but of course the grapefruit and coffee diet leaves her constantly hungry. She then hears about a way to lose a lot of weight by taking certain medications from a doctor, so she decides to try it.  Tyrone and Harrygoldfarbjaredleto have made a lot of money by dealing drugs, gradually filling up a shoe box Tyrone hides in a wall in his apartment. Gazing at the money in the shoe box, he reminisces about running home and into his mother's arms before making love to his girlfriend.  As summer progresses to fall, so do the debilitating effects of the drugs that Harrygoldfarbjaredleto, Tyrone, Marionsilverjenniferconnelly. and Saragoldfarbellenburstyn use. The money that Harrygoldfarbjaredleto and Tyrone had saved starts to dwindle. First, Harrygoldfarbjaredleto buys Saragoldfarbellenburstyn a large, new TVentertainment set. Tyrone gets caught in the middle of a drug gang assassination, lands in jail and needs to be bailed out. While visiting Saragoldfarbellenburstyn to tell her about the new TV set he's gotten her, Harrygoldfarbjaredleto finds out that the diet pills that Saragoldfarbellenburstyn is taking are methamphetamine 'uppers,' or 'speed,' and warns her of the dangers involved. However, Saragoldfarbellenburstyn delivers a passionate monologue about how her upcoming television appearance is giving her a new lease on life. Harrygoldfarbjaredleto leaves in a taxi, shattered emotionally by his mother's situation, but he won't do anything to prevent her addiction growing.  Eventually, Tyrone, Harrygoldfarbjaredleto and Marionsilverjenniferconnelly.ilverjenniferconnelly all run out of both drugs and money. Without money they cannot buy more drugs. Harrygoldfarbjaredleto pleads with Marionsilverjenniferconnelly.ilverjenniferconnelly to ask Arnoldseangullette for 2,000 so that Harrygoldfarbjaredleto and Tyrone can make a purchase from a notorious mob figure. As Marionsilverjenniferconnelly.ilverjenniferconnelly fears, Arnoldseangullette wants her to sleep with him in return, and she reluctantly complies with Harrygoldfarbjaredleto's acceptance. At the site of the drug deal, a scuffle breaks out among buyers trying to push ahead in the line, and the supplier opens fire before driving away, leaving several people  Harrygoldfarbjaredleto included  without any drugs.  Saragoldfarbellenburstyn loses weight gradually, the zipper on her dress coming tantalizingly closer to zipping up completely. But she also develops a tolerance for the pills that lead her to continually increase her dosage without consulting her doctor, and she slips into druginduced psychosis that causes her to experience hallucinations involving her refrigerator, which get more and more intense. Saragoldfarbellenburstyn begins to regularly hallucinate that she is the guest of honor on Tappy Tibbons' infomercial and gets to speak with the man himself.  Harrygoldfarbjaredleto's relationship with Marionsilverjenniferconnelly.ilverjenniferconnelly starts to crumble when the need for drugs starts to overcome their sensibilities and the love they have for each other. Marionsilverjenniferconnelly.ilverjenniferconnelly blames Harrygoldfarbjaredleto for the failed purchase from the mob figure. After one major fight, Harrygoldfarbjaredleto gives her a phone number for a major dealer named Bigtim , who he heard about from Tyrone. Harrygoldfarbjaredleto and Tyrone couldn't buy from Bigtim because he was more interested in 'pussy' than money. Harrygoldfarbjaredleto also discovers a black spot on his arm where he injects the heroin.  Fall fades into winter. As a result of increasing drug gang violence and police crackdowns, Harrygoldfarbjaredleto and Tyrone cannot find any heroin in the city, so they decide to drive to Florida to make a purchase. Marionsilverjenniferconnelly.ilverjenniferconnelly goes through severe deprivation withdrawal and she tearfully begs Tyrone and Harrygoldfarbjaredleto's regular contact, Angel, for help, but he rebuffs her because she is broke. In desperation, she calls Bigtim and goes to his house. Although she is hesitant for a moment, she gives him a blow job in return for a fix. Pleased with her performance, Bigtim invites her to a big orgy event at his house later in the week.  The invitation for Saragoldfarbellenburstyn to appear on TV has not arrived, and her hallucinations with the refrigerator reach a climax as she takes more and more pills, thinking they will make the refrigerator stop. But instead, she finally hallucinates that the refrigerator lurches through the kitchen straight towards her and opens a wide toothy mouth. Saragoldfarbellenburstyn runs from her apartment in fear, wearing no winter coat even though shoveled snow lines both sides of the streets. She wanders in a stupor, gets on the subway and finds her way to a Manhattan television station, begging to know when she will be on television. The receptionist and TV executives stall for time so they can contact paramedics who take her to a mental hospital.  As Harrygoldfarbjaredleto and Tyrone are headed to Florida, the black spot on Harrygoldfarbjaredleto's arm grows to an alarming size and he begins complaining about the pain. Tyrone drives Harrygoldfarbjaredleto to a hospital. One look at Harrygoldfarbjaredleto's arm and the triage doctor knows that Harrygoldfarbjaredleto is a drug addict. He discreetly excuses himself taking all drugs with him and calls the county sheriff's department, taking the medicine and drugs which were previously lying around with him, just in case. Tyrone and Harrygoldfarbjaredleto are arrested and sent to jail, where Tyrone is subjected to racist guards and punishing work detail. Harrygoldfarbjaredleto uses his phone call to contact Marionsilverjenniferconnelly. She begs him to come home right away, and he promises her he will, but she knows he is lying. As they speak on the phone, Marionsilverjenniferconnelly.ilverjenniferconnelly is getting dressed up to attend Bigtim's party.  At the mental hospital, Saragoldfarbellenburstyn refuses treatment and refuses to eat, and her psychosis only deepens. Still delusional, she unwittingly and unknowingly signs an authorization for doctors to put her through electroshock therapy.  While clearing prisoners for work detail, a prison doctor finds Harrygoldfarbjaredleto's arm has become almost completely black and gives off a foul odor, and the pain is too much for Harrygoldfarbjaredleto to bear. He is sent to the prison infirmary, where the doctors quickly determine they must immediately cut off Harrygoldfarbjaredleto's arm at the shoulder to save his life.  At Bigtim's party, Marionsilverjenniferconnelly.ilverjenniferconnelly engages in a variety of sex acts including an 'ass to ass' with another woman and a twosided dildo.  Harrygoldfarbjaredleto has a dream of running toward a smiling Marionsilverjenniferconnelly.ilverjenniferconnelly as she waits for him on a Coney Island pier, and then awakens in a hospital ward with a beautiful, kind nurse Liannapai watching over him. Hearing him speak Marionsilverjenniferconnelly.s name, the nurse promises to contact her and arrange to have her come see him. But Harrygoldfarbjaredleto knows she will not come he knows he's lost her.  Marionsilverjenniferconnelly.ilverjenniferconnelly arrives home from Bigtim's party, clutching a large plastic bag to her breast she's been paid very well and Bigtim likes her enough to be her supplier as long as she pleases him. She lies down on her couch and smiles blissfully.  Tyrone and several other prisoners are ushered into a common cell after work detail and Tyrone lies down on a cot, exhausted, with only a pillow and no blanket.  Two of Saragoldfarbellenburstyn's friends visit her at the mental hospital, and are so horrified and shocked at the sight of her as a hollow shell of her former self that they sob uncontrollably in each others' arms while waiting for their bus back home.  All four main characters are shown curling up in a fetal position Harrygoldfarbjaredleto in the hospital bed with his arm amputated, Marionsilverjenniferconnelly.ilverjenniferconnelly on her couch after gaining a regular drug supplier in return for her favors, Tyrone on a cot in prison as he dreams of his childhood and his mother, and Saragoldfarbellenburstyn in a bed at the mental hospital.  The movie closes with Saragoldfarbellenburstyn having another hallucination where she is a grand prize winner on the Tappy Tibbons show, wearing her red dress and looking beautiful showing off Harrygoldfarbjaredleto, who in her dreams, has become a successful businessman engaged to marry Marionsilverjenniferconnelly. to a cheering audience.