An American flag backlighted by the afternoon sun gently flaps in the breeze. The camera pulls back to reveal the Normandy American Cemetery and Memorial. An elderly man Ryanharrisonyoung approaches the cemetery and walks among the rows of gravestones, which are mostly marble crosses, with an occasional Star of David marking the grave of a Jewish soldier. He is accompanied by his wife, his daughter and her husband, and three teenage granddaughters. He searches the crosses and stops at a specific one, where he falls to his knees, crying. His family walks up behind him and tries to comforts him. The camera slowly zooms in on his face, into his eyes.   June 6, 1944, Omaha Beach, Dog Green Sector  On the choppy waters of the English Channel, American Ranger soldiers are headed to Omaha Beach in landing vehicles. The captain of one unit, Johnh. Millertomhanks, tells his men to, upon landing, clear the murder holes and check their rifles for sand and water when they exit the boats. Millertomhanks's right hand shakes nervously.  The moment the landing ramp at the front of the boat opens, a number of men are immediately struck down by machine gun fire from concrete German bunkers built into the cliffs overlooking the beach. To avoid the machine gun fire, other men jump over the gunwales of the landing boats and into the surf. Some drown under the weight of their heavy gear. Upon gaining the beach, many take refuge behind the wooden landing craft obstacles and the thin flanks of the steel tank obstacles blocking approaches to the beach, which offer almost no protection from incoming fire and mortar rounds.  As Millertomhanks crawls up the sand, a mortar shell hits nearby and the blast temporarily stuns him, knocking his helmet off. Millertomhanks's is stunned and his hearing is reduced to a dull, muddled noise. He watches as men around him are hit by bullets or the blast of mortar rounds, or are simply too scared to move. One private looks Millertomhanks in the eye and asks him what to do. Millertomhanks's hearing slowly returns and he orders his sergeant, Mikehorvathtomsizemore to move his men up the beach and out of the line of enemy fire. As Millertomhanks staggers up the beach, he drags a wounded man. The man is hit by a mortar blast and is killed Millertomhanks suddenly discovers that he's been dragging less than half the man's dismembered remains. The German barrage kills most of the US Army troops and leaves twice as many wounded many of the wounded are eviscerated or missing limbs and slowly bleed to death on the beach, despite the efforts of medics to treat them.  Whomever is left in Millertomhanks's platoon assembles at a sandbar that provides very little cover from the German bombardment. Millertomhanks orders his men to use bangalore explosives to clear out the barbed wire and mines behind the sandbar for their advance. The men make it to the nearest concrete bunker where a German machine gun nest on a nearby cliff keeps them from moving further. After sending a few of his men into the fire zone where they're cut down immediately, Millertomhanks has his sniper, Pvt. Danieljacksonbarrypepper, run into the fire zone and take out the men in the machine gun nest. Danieljacksonbarrypepper's efforts are successful and Millertomhanks moves his men behind the bunker where a soldier with a flamethrower sets the bunker ablaze.  On the beach, one soldier yells to the others to let the German soldiers burn as they jump out of the bunker. Millertomhanks's men engage other German soldiers in the trenches behind the bunker, quickly creating an exit route from Omaha for the rest of the battalion. Millertomhanks also watches as a few men mercilessly execute a few surrendering German and Czech soldiers. Pvt. Adriancaparzovindiesel finds a Hitler Youth knife which he gives to his friend, Pvt. Stanleymellishadamgoldbergmellish begins to sob. Mikehorvathtomsizemore collects a handful of dirt in a small metal can marked France and puts it into his haversack alongside cans marked Italy and Africa. Mikehorvathtomsizemore comments to Millertomhanks that the beach commands quite a view it is covered with the bodies of thousands of dead and wounded American soldiers. On the backpack of one of them is the name S. Pvtjamesryanmattdamon.  At the War Department in the United States, rows of secretaries are typing death notices to be sent to the families of the men killed in various battles around the world. One of the women typing discovers three letters for three men from the same family. The three men are all brothers from the Pvtjamesryanmattdamon family of Iowa and their mother will receive all three letters at the same time. The fourth and youngest son of Mrs. Pvtjamesryanmattdamon. Jamesfrancisryan.ancis, is part of the 101st Airborne Division, dropped into Normandy ahead of the beach invasion and his whereabouts are unknown. The letters are brought to the attention of General Georgemarshallharvepresnell who, after reading a poignant letter sent by Abrahamlincoln to a family under similar circumstances during the Civil War, orders his officers to find Jamesfrancisryan.ancis and have him brought home immediately.  Back in Normandy, three days after DDay, Millertomhanks meets with his commanding officer and reports on a mission that cost the lives of many of his men. Lieutenant Colonel Andersondennisfarina gives him new orders Millertomhanks is tasked with taking a squad into Normandy to find Pvt. Jamesfrancisryan.ancis Pvtjamesryanmattdamon and bring him back. Millertomhanks gathers what men he can and finds Corporal Timothye. Uphamjeremydavies in the camp press box to accompany the squad as a translator  Upham speaks fluent French and German, to replace his previous interpreter. The squad sets out in the French countryside. Upham tries to talk to Mellish and Adriancaparzovindiesel but, because he's the new guy in the squad, finds them unfriendly and even insulting. The squad's medic, Irwinwadegiovanniribisi, asks Upham about a book he plans to write about the bonds of friendship among soldiers. Richardreibenedwardburns, a hotheaded private from Brooklyn, questions the mission, wanting to know if the effort to find Pvtjamesryanmattdamon is worth the lives of men who should be fighting more important battles to liberate France and Europe. Millertomhanks himself is also skeptical about the mission but understands that his current orders are more important.  The squad arrives in a small French village where Army units are currently at a standstill with the German forces they're fighting. Millertomhanks asks the nearest sergeant if Pvtjamesryanmattdamon is among his unit, but he's not. In an attempt to get information from the Army unit on the other side of town, they send a runner across the battlefield. The runner is cut down almost immediately. They cross the town via some side roads and come across a French family trying to escape their bombed home, but trapped in the cross fire. The father insists the squad take his young daughter to safety Millertomhanks refuses but Adriancaparzovindiesel steps out from cover to take her, against orders. He is shot in the chest by a sniper and falls, still alive, caught in the open. The squad takes cover, unable to pull Adriancaparzovindiesel to safety. Danieljacksonbarrypepper quickly identifies the town's bell tower as the sniper's likely shooting position. He finds a nearby pile of rubble that he uses to counterfire on the sniper. As the sniper looks for another target among the squad, he sees Danieljacksonbarrypepper a moment too late, and is shot through his own scope. Adriancaparzovindiesel dies, bleeding to death. Millertomhanks looks down on his body and harshly tells his men that this is why they follow orders and don't take children. They're not here to take in any children. Wade retrieves a bloodstained letter from the body that Adriancaparzovindiesel had been writing to his father.  In another part of the village, the squad and the other soldiers sit down inside a bombed building to rest. A sergeant sends one of his men to find their CO. When the sergeant sits down, he knocks over a weakened brick wall that reveals a squad of German soldiers inside the building. A standoff ensues, with both sides aiming their weapons at each other, and both demanding the other put down their guns. The impasse is unexpectedly ended when the Germans are cut down by machinegun fire from the unit's Captain Teddanson and the soldier sent to find him.  Millertomhanks asks the captain if he has a Pvt. Jamesfrancisryan. Pvtjamesryanmattdamon in his unit. The captain confirms that he does, and Pvtjamesryanmattdamon.athanfillion is brought to Millertomhanks who tells him his brothers are dead. The man breaks down and asks how they died and Millertomhanks tells him they were killed in combat. Pvtjamesryanmattdamon is incredulous, telling Millertomhanks that his brothers are still in grade school. Millertomhanks confirms the man's full name, and learns that he is Jamesfrancisryan.ederick Pvtjamesryanmattdamon from Minnesota Millertomhanks, exasperated, tells Pvtjamesryanmattdamon he's sure his brothers are just fine. From another private being treated for a leg wound, also from the 101st, the squad learns that the 101st's rallying point is nearby and that Pvtjamesryanmattdamon may have gone there.  The squad spends a few hours resting in a church. Wade rewrites the bloodstained letter Adriancaparzovindiesel wanted to send to his father. Mikehorvathtomsizemore and Millertomhanks talk about how many men Millertomhanks has lost under his command. Millertomhanks accepts that men die in combat for the greater good. Cpl. Upham talks to the captain about a betting pool the men have going where they try to guess Millertomhanks's occupation before the war began. Upham and Millertomhanks come to a silent agreement that when the pool is big enough, Millertomhanks will tell him the answer.  The squad arrives at a rally point near a wrecked troop glider. The rally point is filled with dozens of wounded GIs. Sitting among the men is the pilot of the glider who tells them he doesn't know where to find Pvt. Pvtjamesryanmattdamon. The pilot's glider went down after being towed because steel plates had been welded to its underside to protect a general in his jeep, making the glider too heavy to fly. The glider crashed, killing the general. The squad reflects on the efforts to protect only a single man. The pilot gives Millertomhanks a bag full of dog tags taken from dead soldiers. Millertomhanks has his men go through them looking for Pvtjamesryanmattdamon. They do so rather callously while men from Army Airborne units march by. Wade walks over and starts picking up the tags, muttering that his comrades are acting rather coldly in front of the passing soldiers. Millertomhanks concludes that Pvtjamesryanmattdamon isn't among them and in a minor fit of desperation, beings to question the passing soldiers, asking if any of them know Pvtjamesryanmattdamon. He gets lucky with one man who is from Pvtjamesryanmattdamon.s unit and has lost his hearing from a grenade blast, so he yells his answers. The man tells him that Pvtjamesryanmattdamon was assigned to a mixed unit that's guarding a bridge across the Merderet River in the nearby village of Ramelle. Millertomhanks determines that the bridge is of vital importance to the Army and the Germans because it will allow either to drive their tank units across the water.  The squad sets out again. They spot two dead GIs in a field and confirm that none of them are Pvtjamesryanmattdamon. Millertomhanks and Mikehorvathtomsizemore spot a machine gun nest near a partially destroyed radar dish. Though it would be easier, as Richardreibenedwardburns suggests, to keep their distance from the machine gun and slip quietly around it, Millertomhanks resolves to take out the German's position so that the next Allied unit will not be surprised and killed. The squad is against his plan, but he won't relent, and gives them their assignments. Upham is instructed to stay behind with their gear. The squad attacks the machine gun emplacement, while Upham watches through one of Danieljacksonbarrypepper's sniper's scopes. When the skirmish is over, the men yell frantically for Upham to bring their gear. When Upham reaches them, he sees that Wade has been shot several times in the chest and is bleeding. The men frantically try to save his life but Wade dies, saying he wants to go home. One of the Germans Joergstadler is captured alive and in retribution, the squad rushes around him, beating him. Millertomhanks is undecided how to dispose of the German POW, and orders that he dig graves for Wade and the two GIs they saw in the field. When Upham protests that prisoners aren't to be treated like slaves, Millertomhanks coldly orders Upham to help the German. As the German digs the graves, Millertomhanks sits off to one side where he cries, his right hand shaking again. He slowly recovers his composure and returns to the squad.  Millertomhanks's squad wants to kill the remaining German, excepting Upham, who has mildly befriended the German while he dug the graves. The German begs for his life, insisting he loves America, saying Fuckhitler. The men are unmoved and prepare their weapons to kill him when Millertomhanks intervenes. He blindfolds the German and, to the astonishment of the squad, lets the man walk off, directing Upham to tell him to surrender to the next Allied unit. Richardreibenedwardburns in particular is offended by Millertomhanks's compassion and threatens to desert, saying that their mission has gotten two of their comrades killed. Mikehorvathtomsizemore orders Richardreibenedwardburns to fall into formation and threatens to shoot him. The entire squad begins to argue heatedly and Millertomhanks suddenly asks Upham the total of the pool on him. Millertomhanks reveals that he's an English composition teacher in a small Pennsylvania town. The men stop arguing, completely astonished. Millertomhanks says the war has changed him and he's not sure if his wife will recognize him and if he'll be able to resume his former life when he returns home. He reasons that if finding and bringing Pvtjamesryanmattdamon back ensures that he'll be able to get home sooner, then it's his job to complete the mission. The squad finishes burying Wade and the other GIs.  The exhausted squad approaches Ramelle. While crossing a field, they spot a German halftrack. Millertomhanks orders everyone to take cover while the vehicle passes. The halftrack is suddenly hit by bazooka fire. Millertomhanks's squad is momentarily confused, uncertain who is firing, but moves in and kills Germans as they attempt to escape the destroyed vehicle. A small group of American soldiers emerge from their positions in the field and identify themselves as paratroopers from various Airborne units. One of them identifies himself as Pvt Pvtjamesryanmattdamon Matt Damon .  In the ruins of the village of Ramelle, Millertomhanks's squad learns that Pvtjamesryanmattdamon and his comrades are guarding one of two remaining bridges across the Merderet River. Their commanding officer had been killed a few days before. Millertomhanks tells Pvtjamesryanmattdamon that his three brothers are dead and that he's been given a ticket home. Pvtjamesryanmattdamon is devastated by the news of his family but refuses to leave, saying that it's his duty to stay with his unit and defend the bridge until relief arrives. Pvtjamesryanmattdamon says his mother would understand his desire to remain at the bridge with the only brothers he has left. Millertomhanks can't change Pvtjamesryanmattdamon.s mind. Millertomhanks and Mikehorvathtomsizemore reflect on Pvtjamesryanmattdamon.s refusal and they decide to stay and help the unit defend the bridge.  Millertomhanks inventories their few remaining weapons and supplies. Millertomhanks outlines a plan to bottle up German tanks on the main street of Ramelle, where the rubble from destroyed buildings creates a narrow choke point that will channel the German troops into a bottleneck and allow the soldiers to flank the Germans. Their plan includes Richardreibenedwardburns riding out on a German halftrack motorcycle to lure the German unit into the bottleneck. Millertomhanks suggests they improvise sticky bombs, socks stuffed with Composition B explosives and coated with grease. They'll use the sticky bombs to blast the treads off a tank. They retrieve some spare Comp B from the demolition charges on the bridge. Upham is given the job of running ammunition to the two Browning machine gun positions manned by Mellish and 101st paratrooper Parkerdemetrigoritsas. Danieljacksonbarrypepper and Parkerdemetrigoritsas take position in the church tower to provide sniper cover.  The men wait for the Germans to arrive, listening to Tous es Partout by Edithpiaf, while Upham interprets  his new comrades seem more accepting of him and listen intently while he translate. Pvtjamesryanmattdamon tells Millertomhanks that he can remember his brothers but he can't see their faces. Millertomhanks suggests he think of a context, something they've all done together. Millertomhanks tells Pvtjamesryanmattdamon when he wants to remember his wife, he thinks of her trimming rosebushes. Pvtjamesryanmattdamon tells the story of how he and his brothers nearly burned down the barn on their farm when they snuck up on their oldest brother, Danny, while he was trying to have sex with a local girl in the hayloft. Jamesfrancisryan.ancis laughs and stops when he realizes that the incident was the last time they were all together, over two years ago, before any of them had gone to basic training. When Pvtjamesryanmattdamon asks Millertomhanks to tell him about his wife and the rosebushes, Millertomhanks politely refuses, saying that memory is for him alone.  The squad feels the ground beginning to rumble, indicating that the German column has arrived. Danieljacksonbarrypepper signals from the church tower that there are two Panzer tanks  and two Tiger I heavy tanks. There are also at least 50 German troops. Millertomhanks orders everyone to their positions and Richardreibenedwardburns rides out to act as the rabbit to lure the Germans into town. One of the Tiger tanks proceeds down the main street, and one of the soldiers attempts to plant a sticky bomb on the tank. He waits too long and the bomb blows up, killing him. The German troops following the tank are cut down by the soldiers and by mines planted along the sides. Two men plant the Comp B bombs on the wheels of the Tiger, blasting it's tread apart, eventually bringing it to a halt. When they advance on the tank to take out it's crew, they are fired upon by a small German squad with a 20 millimeter flak cannon that takes out several more men.  Pvtjamesryanmattdamon and Millertomhanks's squads open fire and shift positions several times during the battle. Though they take the Germans by surprise, several of the men are killed. Danieljacksonbarrypepper is discovered in his perch and is hit by tank fire. Mellish and Corporalhenderson  man a .30 caliber machine gun to cut off any flanking action by the Germans. Corporalhenderson is killed and then Mellish is attacked by a German soldier  who overpowers him in handtohand combat, slowly driving a bayonet into Mellish's chest. Immediately outside the room on the stairs, Cpl. Upham sits, frozen with terror, unable to move to rescue Mellish.  The German soldier kills Mellish and marches out, indifferent to the terrified Upham. Richardreibenedwardburns is able to flank the 20mm cannon and takes out its operators. Sgt. Mikehorvathtomsizemore is wounded during this time when he and another soldier corner each other. They each chuck helmets at each other, then shoot each other with their pistols. The German soldier here is killed and Mikehorvathtomsizemore is injured. He grabs Upham and retreats when Millertomhanks orders everyone to cross the bridge to their Alamo position, where they'll make their last stand. The surviving 60ton Tiger tank follows and appears to be unstoppable despite Mikehorvathtomsizemore shooting several bazooka rockets at it in a futile attempt to disable it. Mikehorvathtomsizemore is shot in the chest as he pulls back and dies a few minutes later. Millertomhanks prepares to destroy the bridge when a shell from the Tiger hits the building behind him, blowing the detonator out of his hands. He staggers across the bridge to retrieve it and is shot in the chest by the same German soldier Joergstadler he'd set free at the radar station. Upham witnesses the shooting while hiding behind a pile of rubble.  Millertomhanks falls, unable to continue. He draws his .45 pistol and begins to shoot vainly at the Tiger tank, which has begun to cross the bridge. After a few shots, the tank impossibly explodes. A small squadron of P51 Mustang fighters suddenly zoom into view, having bombed the tank and several enemy targets. Richardreibenedwardburns and Pvtjamesryanmattdamon rush to Millertomhanks's side and call for a medic. Upham, still on the other side of the bridge, is undetected by the enemy squad. He reveals himself and takes the entire squad prisoner. The man who shot Millertomhanks recognizes Upham and calls him by name. After a moment's hesitation, Upham fires his weapon for the first time, killing the man. The soldier's body thumps to the ground and Upham sharply orders the rest of the prisoners to disperse.  As Millertomhanks lays dying, Pvtjamesryanmattdamon tells him that the planes are P51 Mustangs, tank busters. Millertomhanks calls them Angels on our shoulders. He beckons Pvtjamesryanmattdamon closer and with his dying breath, tells him Earn this. earn it. In a voiceover, General Georgemarshallharvepresnell's voice reads a letter to Pvtjamesryanmattdamon.s mother, informing her that her son is returning home. He quotes a passage from Abrahamlincoln's letter about the cost of war.  Pvtjamesryanmattdamon stands looking at Millertomhanks's body. The camera focuses on Pvtjamesryanmattdamon.s young face as it morphs into Pvtjamesryanmattdamon in the present. He is standing at Captain Millertomhanks's grave. He tells Millertomhanks that he hopes he's lived up to Millertomhanks's wish and been worthy of all that Millertomhanks and his men did for him. He asks his wife to tell him that he's led a good life and that he's a good man. The elder Pvtjamesryanmattdamon.arrisonyoung salutes Millertomhanks's grave. An American flag backlighted by the afternoon sun gently flaps in the breeze.