In May 1980, a Cuban man named Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana Al Pacino claims asylum, in Florida, USA, and is in search of the American Dream after departing Cuba in the Mariel boatlift of 1980. When questioned by three toughtalking INS officials, they notice a tattoo on Tonymontanaalpacino.s arm, which identifies him as a hitman, and detain him in a camp called 'Freedomtown' with other Cubans, including Tonymontanaalpacino.s best friend and former Cuban Army buddy Manolo Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer.ay Ribiera Steven Bauer, under the local I95 expressway while the government evaluates their visa petitions.  After 30 days of governmental dithering and camp rumors, Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer.ay receives an offer from the Cuban Mafia which he quickly relays to Tonymontanaalpacino. If they kill Emiliorebengarobertocontreras a former aide to Fidelcastro who is now detained in Freedomtown, they will receive greencards. Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana agrees, and kills Emiliorebengarobertocontreras during a riot at Freedomtown. The murder of Emiliorebengarobertocontreras was requested by Franklpez.pez, a wealthy, politically astute man who deals cars and trades in cocaine, as Emiliorebengarobertocontreras had tortured Franklpez.pez's brother to death while still in Cuba many years earlier.  After getting their Green Cards, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana and Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer.ay find work as dishwashers in a corner sandwichtaco shop. Some weeks later, a Franklpez.pez henchman and underboss, Omarsurez F. Murrayabraham, the man who contacted Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer.ay for the Emiliorebengarobertocontreras hit job, offers Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana and Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer.ay a lowrisk job of unloading marijuana from a boat from Mexco to arrive in Miami the following night for 500 each. Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana insults Surez by turning down the job over the little money they will receive, so Surez sets him up to pick up two kilograms of cocaine with over 25,000 from a Colombian dealer, named Hector The Toad, a job for which Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana and Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer.ay will receive 5,000.  That weekend, Tonymontanaalpacino. Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer. and two other Marielitos in his crew, Angelfernndezpepeserna, and Chichi ngel Salazar then set out to meet Hector the Toad Al Israel at a seedy motel on the boulevard in Miami Beach. While Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer.ay and Chichi wait in the car on the street, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana and Angel go up to the hotel room to meet with Hector. The meeting does not go smoothly, as Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana grows irritated with Hector, who is slow to give him the cocaine in exchange for money. Suddenly, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana and Angel are doublecrossed by the Colombian. It becomes apparent that Hector does not intend to sell Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana the cocaine he has he only wants to steal the money Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana has been given to purchase the product. To convince Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana to give over the cash, Hector dismembers Angel in a shower stall with a chainsaw. After Angel is dead, Tonymontanaalpacino. about to suffer the same fate, is saved by Chichi and Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer.ay who arrive in the nick of time to gun down Hector's henchmen. Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer.ay receives a minor bullet wound in his shoulder. Hector escapes but Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana vengefully confronts him in the street and shoots him dead in the middle of the crowded Ocean Drive . Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana and his crew then get away with both the cocaine and the money before the police arrive.  The following night, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana then impresses Lpezrobertloggia with not only the return of his cash but with a gift of the coke, a prize from the botched rip off. Franklpez.pez immediately hires Tonymontanaalpacino.s crew into his criminal hierarchy, a representative of a Cuban mafia. But during this initial get together Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana also meets Lopez's lady, the blond and beautiful Elvirahancockmichellepfeiffer, who will eventually become the source of tension between the two men. Taking Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana and Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer.ay out to a local nightclub called The Babylon Club where Franklpez.pez frequently attends, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana and Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer.ay see firsthand the high standard of living they have come to acquire. Though Franklpez.pez actually warns against these excesses, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana is seduced by them regardless. Thus, Montana begins his rise through the ranks of the Miami cocaine underworld.  Three months later, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana attempts to make amends by meeting with his estranged family. It is implied that Tonymontanaalpacino.s father, a former U.S. Navy sailor, abandoned the family when Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana was little. Since then, his mother Miriamcolon and younger sister Ginamaryelizabethmastrantonio have been living in Miami. Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana shows up at his mother's and Ginamaryelizabethmastrantonio's house one evening, fashionably dressed, and offers them 1,000 in cash for financial support. Ginamaryelizabethmastrantonio is overjoyed to see her older brother whom they have not seen for five years. But Tonymontanaalpacino.s mother has only scorn for him since he turned his back on them many years ago for the quick and easy life of crime back in Cuba, and wants nothing to do with Tonymontanaalpacino. and she is too full of pride to accept his money despite being financially stricken. But Ginamaryelizabethmastrantonio, who idolizes her brother, follows him outside where he slips her the money secretly. Ginamaryelizabethmastrantonio tells Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana that she wants in on the flashy life that he has going for him. Tonymontanaalpacino.s love for Ginamaryelizabethmastrantonio is clearly genuine for she's the only person that he trusts, and is also very protective of her. Afterwords, Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer.ay makes a comment to Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana about how attractive Ginamaryelizabethmastrantonio is, but Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana angrily warns him to avoid courting her.  Several months later, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana is sent to Bolivia to help Omar set up a new distribution deal with Bolivian kingpin Alejandrososapaulshenar, since Franklpez.pez is having legal troubles that preclude him from leaving the country. Though Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana was supposed to let Omar do all the talking, Omar proves to be a poor negotiator, prompting Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana to step in and save the deal. They seem to negotiate a deal that, on the surface seems favorable to both sides, but Omar insists that Franklpez.pez would not approve. Alejandrososapaulshenar suggests that Omar use his phone to call Franklpez. A few moments later, Alejandrososapaulshenar hands Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana a spyglass, and he sees two menacing assassins, Alberto the Shadow Markmargolis and the Skull Genosilva, execute Omar by hanging him by the neck from an airborne helicopter. Alejandrososapaulshenar reveals that Omar was an informant for the police several years ago, and he has a zero tolerance for disloyalty. Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana insists that he never goes back on his word, and that he never trusted Omar. Alejandrososapaulshenar agrees to bring Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana on board with him as his North American distributor of cocaine and other drugs. But upon their agreement, Alejandrososapaulshenar sternly warns Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana never to betray or doublecross him in any way.  Upon his return to Florida, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana is chewed out by Franklpez.pez for overstepping his authority as well as hearing about Omar's death. Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana explains to Franklpez.pez that for a price of 18 million to pay Alejandrososapaulshenar for the manufacturing and transportation costs, they will receive 2,000 kilograms of cocaine from Bolivia for nationwide sale and distribution which will earn them 75 million over a period of one year. Franklpez.pez is worried because he does not have the many millions to pay Alejandrososapaulshenar for the cocaine, but Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana says that he is in tight with Alejandrososapaulshenar and he has established a credit line with him as well as work out a payment plan where they will pay Alejandrososapaulshenar 5 million up front and the rest in monthly installments. Plus, in case Franklpez.pez comes up short a few million, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana will earn the money needed through his own street contacts. Franklpez.pez angrily tells Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana that he did not negotiate a good deal, for Alejandrososapaulshenar merely tricked him into thinking he did. Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana replies that it's time for them to think big, and to expand the cartel for nationwide distribution of cocaine. With them as the main North American distributors and wholesalers of the Alejandrososapaulshenar cartel, they will make millions and become the biggest cartel in the continent. Franklpez.pez warns Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana that Alejandrososapaulshenar cannot be trusted and that he will sooner or later turn against them for any slight deviation or compromise of his business. Franklpez.pez orders Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana to stall his deal with Alejandrososapaulshenar for the time being. Franklpez.pez then promptly tells Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana that ambitious drug dealers such at himself who want too much and crave money, power and attention, do not last long in the business. Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana leaves shrugging with indifference and strikes out on his own.   After this incident, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana then seeks out Elvirahancockmichellepfeiffer to whom he makes an unexpected marriage proposal. she is shaken by this, but agrees to think about it. Franklpez.pez is none too happy when he hears about this and decides to take out Tonymontanaalpacino.  At the Babylon nightclub that evening, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana is approached and shaken down by a Miami detective, Melbernsteinharrisyulin. He proposes to tax Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana on his transactions in return for police protection and information. Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana is distracted by the sight of Ginamaryelizabethmastrantonio dancing with a local drug dealer. He follows the two to a restroom stall where he berates Ginamaryelizabethmastrantonio for her promiscuous conduct. He asks Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer.ay to take her home. On the way Ginamaryelizabethmastrantonio admits she is attracted to Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer. Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer.ay wards her off, mindful of Tonymontanaalpacino.s extreme protectiveness.  Back at the nightclub, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana is attacked by two gunmen but manages to escape, killing them both despite being wounded by a gunshot to his left shoulder. Suspecting Franklpez.pez sent Melbernsteinharrisyulin and the hitmen, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana asks one of his bodyguards, Nickthepig, to call Franklpez.pez after Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana arrives at Franklpez.s office at 300 a.m. that very night and inform him the hit failed. Tonymontanaalpacino. Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer.ay and Chichi visit Franklpez.pez at his car dealership back office, who is with Det. Melbernsteinharrisyulin. Nick calls Franklpez. who confirms his involvement by playing the call off as Elvirahancockmichellepfeiffer telling him she'll be late home. When it becomes apparent that Melbernsteinharrisyulin  will not help him, Franklpez.pez begs for Tonymontanaalpacino.s forgiveness, saying that he can have Elvirahancockmichellepfeiffer and ten million dollars in exchange for sparing his life. Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana will have none of it, and Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer.ay coldly executes Franklpez. Melbernsteinharrisyulin insists that he could be a valuable ally for Tonymontanaalpacino. but Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana disagrees, and kills him too.  His problems apparently solved, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana begins a profitable relationship with Alejandrososapaulshenar, marries Elvirahancockmichellepfeiffer, buys a new mansion complete with surveillance cameras and numerous luxury items, and Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana even sets Ginamaryelizabethmastrantonio up in business with her own beauty salon. Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer.ay and Ginamaryelizabethmastrantonio soon begin a romantic relationship, but they keep it secret from Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana who had firmly stated to Ginamaryelizabethmastrantonio that he does not want her dating anybody.  As Tonymontanaalpacino.s business grows, so does his cocaine addiction and paranoia, and he begins to spiral out of control. the beginning of the end. His wife, who becomes further addicted to cocaine, becomes bored and emotionally distant. Tonymontanaalpacino.s banker informs him that laundering the increasing flow of drug money has become increasingly difficult, so he will be charging higher fees, up to 10. A Jewish mob boss, Melseidelbaumtedbeniades, contacts Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer. offering his assistance. However, as they are cleaning out the money, Melseidelbaumtedbeniades reveals himself to be an undercover cop and arrests Tonymontanaalpacino. After posting a 5 million in bail, Tonymontanaalpacino.s corrupt lawyer, Sheffield, tells him that although he may get him cleared of the corruption and money laundering charges, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana will probably have to serve at least three years in prison for tax evasion. Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer.ay suggests that he take it, as the American prison system is nowhere near as harsh as its Cuban counterpart, and the right legal loopholes could trim the sentence down to six months. However, the strungout Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana yells that he would rather die than spend a single day in jail.  After hearing about Tonymontanaalpacino.s arrest, Alejandrososapaulshenar, not wanting to lose his main distributor, steps in to intervene by offering Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana a way out of going to prison. He calls Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana back to Bolivia where he introduces him to his cocaine board of directors a group that includes a sugar baron, Bolivia's military chief, and a mysterious American named Charlesgoodsongregghenry. We assume he is a corrupt CIA officer because Alejandrososapaulshenar guarantees that the IRS will not be able to send Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana to jail. But this help comes at a price. A Bolivian journalist attempting to expose the ongoing corruption in the Bolivian government involving drug trafficking, and his crusade is beginning to hurt Alejandrososapaulshenar and his partners. Alejandrososapaulshenar will be sending Alberto to New York assassinate the journalist, but he needs Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana and his crew to provide some extra muscle. Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana is clearly disturbed by the assassination since it is against his custom to kill a man whom he sees as a civilian, plus Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana has never killed anybody who didn't wrong him personally. But seeing no other options, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana reluctantly agrees to help Alejandrososapaulshenar with the hit.  In the meantime, Tonymontanaalpacino.s marriage with Elvirahancockmichellepfeiffer finally ends when after a bitter altercation at a local restaurant, she finally expresses her contempt for him and the lives he had led her on, and walks out of the restaurant, and out of his life. Tonymontanaalpacino. punchdrunk on cocaine, tells the restaurant's other patrons that his existence is necessary since society needs a man like him to call a criminal. Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana also informs Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer.ay to look after things while he travels to New York on business   Tonymontanaalpacino. with his henchmen, Chichi and Reuben, and Alberto travel to New York City and Alberto places a bomb under the journalist's car in with the intention of detonating it outside the UN building before the journalist addresses the General Assembly and exposes Alejandrososapaulshenar's cartel. But Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana has second thoughts when the journalist unexpectedly picks up his wife and children. Tonymontanaalpacino. saying that the team was only supposed to kill only the journalist, shoots Alberto to prevent the journalist's family from being killed. When authorities later discover the unexploded bomb underneath the journalist's car, they realize that an execution had been planned and increase the amount of security protecting the journalist. Alejandrososapaulshenar is now the primary suspect and Alejandrososapaulshenar vows to get even with Tonymontanaalpacino.  Returning to Miami, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana discovers that Ginamaryelizabethmastrantonio and Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer.ay  have disappeared. Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana has long harbored an apparent unnatural obsession for his sister and is overly protective of her for reasons that he may not understand himself. Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana visits his mother again where she angrily tells him about Ginamaryelizabethmastrantonio's descent into an immoral life and accuses him of corrupting her with his flashy lifestyle. After getting Ginamaryelizabethmastrantonio's home address from Mrs. Montana, who doesn't know who else lives there, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana goes to the house in nearby Palm Grove. Much to Tonymontanaalpacino.s surprise, Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer.ay unexpectedly opens the door in his bathrobe. Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana then sees Ginamaryelizabethmastrantonio in a night gown at the top of the stairs. Enraged that another man has obviously slept with his sister, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana shoots Manolomannyrayribierastevenbauer.ay dead. Hysterical, Ginamaryelizabethmastrantonio reveals to Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana that they had just been married and were going to surprise him. Tonymontanaalpacino. riddled with guilt, has Ginamaryelizabethmastrantonio taken back to his mansion.  In revenge for Tonymontanaalpacino.s failure to kill the journalist, who has now exposed Alejandrososapaulshenar and his partners to the world as drug lords, Alejandrososapaulshenar sends a Latino mercenary hit squad , to Tonymontanaalpacino.s mansion to kill him. Sitting at his desk snorting from an enormous pile of cocaine, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana realizes and regrets what he has done to his best friend. When Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana is contemplating his actions, Alejandrososapaulshenar's mercenaries breach the main gate at Tonymontanaalpacino.s estate and quietly begin to kill all the guards around the mansion. At the same time, a distraught Ginamaryelizabethmastrantonio, wearing only an unbuttoned sleep shirt and armed with a revolver, enters Tonymontanaalpacino.s office to confront him with the truth about his feelings for her. She now realizes that Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana loves her in an unnatural way and demands, at gunpoint, that he make love to her. She begins to shoot at him while demanding he take her. A Alejandrososapaulshenar assassin hiding on the balcony, thinking Ginamaryelizabethmastrantonio is shooting at him, leaps in and riddles her with bullets. An enraged Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana throws the man off the balcony and kills him with his submachine gun creating a storm of chaos at the mansion. At this point, the mercenaries, robbed of the element of surprise by the gunshots, swarm in to attack Tonymontanaalpacino.s mansion from all directions.  As all his men are being killed, Tonymontanaalpacino. still delirious from the cocaine, leans over Ginamaryelizabethmastrantonio's dead body begging for forgiveness, at the same time the mercs break into the mansion, Chichi opens fire with an Uzi as he falls back and ends up banging on the door to Tonymontanaalpacino.s office . Unfortunately, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana does not seem to hear him. Chichi is shot in the back and Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana sees it on the security cameras.  As the hit men prepare to storm his office, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana finally snaps out of his druginduced state, arms himself with an AR15 assault rifle with an undermounted M203 grenade launcher and blows down the door. A huge climatic gun battle begins as Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana takes position atop the grand staircase and guns down dozens of Alejandrososapaulshenar's men who try to storm the balcony. Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana is hit a number of times by return fire, but he keeps shooting. With most of Alejandrososapaulshenar's men dead, Tonymontanaalpacino. strungout on drugs, defiantly yells out at the assassins, not realizing that the Skull has sneaked into the room behind him. The Skull shoots Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana in the back with a 12Gauge shotgun. Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana falls off the balcony and into a reflecting pool at the base of the grand staircase. In the final shot, as the Skull and the few surviving assassins look on, Tonymontanaalpacino.ontana lies dead. face down in the reflecting pool which is located below a large brass globe that says THE WORLD IS YOURS.