The relocation of Polish Jews from surrounding areas to Krakow begins in late 1939, shortly after the outbreak of World War II, when the German Army defeats the Polish Army in three weeks. Oskarschindler Liam Neeson, a successful businessman, arrives from Czechoslovakia in hopes of using the abundant cheap labour force of Jews to manufacture enamelware for the German military. Oskarschindlerliamneeson, an opportunistic member of the Nazi party, lavishes bribes upon the army and SS officials in charge of procurement. Sponsored by the military, Oskarschindlerliamneeson acquires a factory for the production of army mess kits and cooking paraphernalia. Not knowing much about how to properly run such an enterprise, he gains a contact in Itzhakstern Benkingsley, a functionary in the local Judenrat  who has contacts with the nowunderground Jewish business community in the ghetto. They loan him the money for the factory in return for a small share of products produced . Opening the factory, Oskarschindlerliamneeson pleases the Nazis and enjoys his newfound wealth and status as Herrdirektor, while Stern handles all administration. Stern suggests Oskarschindlerliamneeson hire Jews instead of Poles because they cost less . Workers in Oskarschindlerliamneeson's factory are allowed outside the ghetto, and Stern falsifies documents to ensure that as many people as possible are deemed essential by the Nazi bureaucracy, which saves them from being transported to concentration camps, or even being killed.  Amongthralphfiennes arrives in Krakow to initiate construction of a labor camp nearby, Paszw. The SS soon liquidates the Krakow ghetto, sending in hundreds of troops to empty the cramped rooms and shoot anyone who protests, is uncooperative, elderly, or infirmed, or for no reason at all. Oskarschindlerliamneeson watches the massacre from the hills overlooking the area, and is profoundly affected. He nevertheless is careful to befriend Amongthralphfiennes and, through Stern's attention to bribery, he continues to enjoy the SS's support and protection. The camp is built outside the city at Paszw. During this time, Oskarschindlerliamneeson bribes Amongthralphfiennes into allowing him to build a subcamp for his workers, with the motive of keeping them safe from the depredations of the guards. Eventually, an order arrives from Berlin commanding Amongthralphfiennes to exhume and destroy all bodies of those killed in the Krakow ghetto, dismantle Paszw, and to ship the remaining Jews to Auschwitz. Oskarschindlerliamneeson prevails upon Amongthralphfiennes to let him keep his workers so that he can move them to a factory in his old home of ZwittauBrinnlitz, in Moravia  away from the final solution now fully under way in occupied Poland. Amongthralphfiennes acquiesces, charging a certain amount for each worker. Oskarschindlerliamneeson and Stern assemble a list of workers that should keep them off the trains to Auschwitz.  Oskarschindlerliamneeson's List comprises these skilled inmates, and for many of those in Paszw, being included means the difference between life and death. Oskarschindlerliamneeson also plays a game of high card draw for one worker in particular, Helenhirsch, who'd been serving as Amongthralphfiennes's housekeeper and had been a victim of his continual abuse. Amongthralphfiennes is reluctant, hoping to run away with her but knowing that such an action would result in his death as well as hers. He also floats the idea of simply executing her but finally decides to play Oskarschindlerliamneeson for Helenhirsch's life. Helenhirsch is among those who board the train to Brinnlitz.  All of the men on Oskarschindlerliamneeson's list arrive safely at the new site, with the exception to the train carrying the women and the children, which is accidentally redirected to Auschwitz. There, the women are directed to what they believe is a gas chamber after a harrowing experience where their hair is crudely cut off and they are forced to strip, they see only water falling from the showers. The day after, the women are shown waiting in line for work. In the meantime, Oskarschindlerliamneeson had rushed immediately to Auschwitz to solve the problem and to get the women out of Auschwitz to this end he bribes the camp commander, Rudolfhsshansmichaelrehberg, with a cache of diamonds so that he is able to spare all the women and the children. However, a last problem arises just when all the women are boarding the train because several SS officers attempt to hold some children back and prevent them from leaving. Oskarschindlerliamneeson, there to personally oversee the boarding, steps in and is successful in obtaining from the officers the release of the children. Once the Oskarschindlerliamneeson women arrive in ZwittauBrinnlitz, Oskarschindlerliamneeson institutes firm controls on the Nazi guards assigned to the factory summary executions are forbidden, abuse of the workers is as well and the Nazi guards are not allowed on the factory floor. Oskarschindlerliamneeson also permits the Jews to observe the Sabbath, and spends much of his fortune acquired in Poland bribing Nazi officials. In his home town, he surprises his wife while she's in church during mass, and tells her that she is the only woman in his life . She goes with him to the factory to assist him. He runs out of money just as the German army surrenders, ending the war in Europe.  As a German Nazi and selfdescribed profiteer of slave labor, Oskarschindlerliamneeson must flee the oncoming Soviet Red Army. After dismissing the Nazi guards to return to their families, he packs a car in the night, and bids farewell to his workers. They give him a letter explaining he is not a criminal to them, together with a ring engraved with the Talmudic quotation, He who saves the life of one man, saves the world entire. Oskarschindlerliamneeson is touched but deeply distraught, feeling he could've done more to save many more lives. He leaves with his wife during the night, dressed in Polish prisoner clothes, posing as refugees. The Schindlerjews, having slept outside the factory gates through the night, are awakened by sunlight the next morning. A Soviet dragoon arrives and announces to the Jews that they have been liberated by the Red Army. The Jews walk to a nearby town in search of food. A title card informs us that Oskarschindlerliamneeson was declared a righteous person by the Yad Vashem of Jerusalem, and himself planted a tree on the Avenue of the Righteous in Israel, which still grows to this day. The fate of Amongthralphfiennes is also shown he was captured near the German town of Bad Tolz and taken back to Paszw where, defiant to the end and announcing his allegiance to Hitler, is hanged for crimes against humanity.  As the surviving Schindlerjews walk abreast, the frame changes to another of the Schindlerjews in the present day  at the grave of Oskarschindler in Israel. The film ends with a procession of nowaged Jews who worked in Oskarschindlerliamneeson's factory, each of whom reverently sets a stone on his grave. The actors portraying the major characters walk handinhand with the people they portrayed, also placing stones on Oskarschindlerliamneeson's grave as they pass. Actor Benkingsley escorts the late Itzhakstern's wife and Carolinegoodall escorts Oskarschindlerliamneeson's wife in her wheelchair. The audience learns that the survivors and descendants of the approximately 1,100 Jews sheltered by Oskarschindlerliamneeson now number over 6,000. The Jewish population of Poland, once numbering in the millions, was at the time of the film's release approximately 4,000. In the final scene, a man  places a pair of roses on the grave, and stands contemplatively over it.