In an unidentified city of constant rain and urban decay, Detective Williamsomersetmorganfreeman is preparing to retire and leave the horrors of the city. Before he retires, he is partnered with Detective Davidmillsbradpitt.illsbradpitt, a cocky, young and shorttempered cop from Springfield, a comparatively small town. The two investigate the murder of a highly obese man Bobmack who was fed spaghetti until a kick to his stomach burst him open. Somerset investigates the murder while Davidmillsbradpitt is given the murder case of Defense Attorney Eligould Gene Borkan, with GREED written in Eligouldgeneborkan's blood on the floor. Eligouldgeneborkan was forced to carve a pound of flesh off of his body, and subsequently bled to death. The police captain gives Somerset an evidence container with three slivers of a plasticlike material found in the stomach of the obese man, which he was forced to consume along with the spaghetti. Going to the victim's house, Somerset finds three groove marks in front of the refrigerator and finds that the plasticlike slivers fit into them perfectly. Knowing the slivers resulted from the refrigerator being moved, Somerset looks behind it. He finds the word GLUTTONY written behind the fridge in grease, along with a note containing a quote from Milton's Paradise Lost. Somerset theorizes that a serial killer is basing his crimes on the Seven Deadly Sins, with five more to go.  To give Davidmillsbradpitt and Somerset a chance to get along with each other, Davidmillsbradpitt's wife, Tracymillsgwynethpaltrow invites Somerset over for dinner. While they are eating, a train passes by on the track nearby, making the building and all its contents and inhabitants tremble the couple mention that that's why the realtor was so nervous for them to see the apartment quickly. After Tracymillsgwynethpaltrow goes to bed, Davidmillsbradpitt and Somerset examine case evidence from the two scenes. They find a picture of Eligouldgeneborkan's wife with blood painted around the eyes. Realizing that this means she is supposed to spot something about the murder scene that nobody else would, the detectives have a distraught Mrs. Gouldjuliearaskog look at the pictures in a safe house and she notices an abstract painting that is upside down. Brushing powder on the wall behind the painting, Somerset finds fingerprints outlining the words Help Me.  After running the fingerprints through AFIS, the prints are traced a day later to a pedophile named Victormichaelreidmackay, who escaped conviction for the rape of a minor due to the efforts of his lawyer, Eligould, the GREED victim. SWAT and the detectives raid his apartment and find Victormichaelreidmackay to be the SLOTH victim, having been bound to his bed for one year to the day, as evidenced by pictures at the scene one taken every day from the day he is discovered. Remarkably, he is still alive but suffering from severe physical and mental deterioration. His hand was cut off and pushed onto the wall behind the painting to leave the prints. Davidmillsbradpitt and Somerset ask to interrogate Victormichaelreidmackay in the hospital, but the doctor says that he's chewed off his tongue and that his brain is mush from the ordeal.  That evening, Tracymillsgwynethpaltrow calls Somerset and requests that he meet with her. The next morning, Somerset meets Tracymillsgwynethpaltrow in a diner where she tells him how miserable she is in the city. At Somerset's urging, Tracymillsgwynethpaltrow reveals the truth of her request to meet she is pregnant, afraid of raising a child where they now live and afraid of telling Davidmillsbradpitt. Somerset advises her to tell her husband only if she decides to have it, and he sets himself as an example he insisted his partner have an abortion, that he finally convinced her, and now he is remorseful.  Later that day, using a contact in the FBI, Somerset gets a library list of people who have borrowed books related to the Seven Deadly Sins. The list leads the detectives to a man named Johndoe, whose apartment they visit soon after. Johndoe. his face hidden, sees them as he comes home, pulls out a gun and begins shooting. After a short chase, Johndoe hits Davidmillsbradpitt with a tire iron, keeps him subdued at gunpoint, but lets him live and suddenly flees.  While examining Johndoe.s apartment  they find notebooks of his thoughts, trophies of the crimes and a picture of Davidmillsbradpitt fighting off Johndoe. who, at the time, was posing as a press photographer. Johndoe calls the apartment and congratulates the detectives on them finding him and apologizes for hitting Davidmillsbradpitt, also telling the young detective that he admires him greatly. Their actions, he says, have caused him to change his plans, and he hangs up. They also find a photo of a young woman, a prostitute Catmueller, who they believe may be the next victim. A receipt leads them to a SampM leather shop where Johndoe placed an order for a sexual device. The girl is soon found dead in a room with LUST written on the door. Also found in the room is a visibly shaken man Lelandorser forced by Johndoe at gunpoint to wear and use the device, a large strapon dildo with a blade attachment, to rape and kill the girl. The owner of the place, Wildbillymartinserene can give no clue to the physical aspect or the briefcase Johndoe used, as every customer used to carry special clothes or equipment into the place.  The next morning, a model Heidischanz is found dead with PRIDE written on the crime scene. Her nose has been cut off  upon which Johndoe gave her the choice of suicide by sleeping pills or calling for help and living scarred. She chose the former, and swallowed the pills. As the detectives return to the police headquarters, Johndoe walks up to them, his hands bleeding  and gives himself up. He talks to his lawyer and agrees that if he can take Somerset and Davidmillsbradpitt to two more bodies, he will confess to all the murders. Wanting a confession, the detectives agree. Somerset and Davidmillsbradpitt both have microphones taped to their chests so the rest of the task force can monitor their conversation with Johndoe. During the prep, Davidmillsbradpitt tries to tell Somerset about a concern he has with Tracymillsgwynethpaltrow, but can't bring himself to talk fully about it.  As the three travel to the desert outskirts of the city in a car, they are trailed by a police helicopter for security . Johndoe explains his rationale behind the murders as a way of showing people the truly evil nature of the world, as well as his desire to punish the wicked. He goes on to say he will be remembered and admired for what he has done, having been chosen to do so. As Johndoe speaks, the disgusted Davidmillsbradpitt is driven to rage, and screams at Johndoe while Somerset remains calmly worried.  Once they reach the outskirts, Johndoe directs them to a specific spot near some power cable towers. The detectives walk Johndoe out to an open spot. After a few moments, a van appears and Somerset stops it several hundred yards away, leaving Davidmillsbradpitt behind to cover Johndoe. The driver  claims someone paid him 500 to deliver a box to Davidmillsbradpitt at this place at exactly 7 o'clock. As Somerset opens the box, he recoils in horror from what he sees inside. As he races back to Davidmillsbradpitt and desperately yells for him to throw his gun away, Johndoe states to Davidmillsbradpitt that he admires Davidmillsbradpitt's life, to the point of being envious of his wife and the love they share. He states that he tried to play husband with Tracymillsgwynethpaltrow that day but it didn't work out and he took a souvenir instead her pretty head. It was Johndoe.s plan that Davidmillsbradpitt will kill him, as Johndoe himself was guilty of ENVY, as he became jealous of Davidmillsbradpitt's simpler life. He also reveals to Davidmillsbradpitt that Tracymillsgwynethpaltrow was pregnant, and that she begged to be kept alive for the child's sake. Davidmillsbradpitt, despite the pleading of Somerset, is so devastated by his wife's death and the knowledge that she was pregnant, that he empties his gun into Johndoe. In killing Johndoe in vengeance, Davidmillsbradpitt comes to embody the sin of WRATH, completing Johndoe.s masterpiece.  After a catatonic Davidmillsbradpitt is taken away, their captain tells Somerset that they'll take care of Davidmillsbradpitt, knowing the jury will condemn him. Somerset answers, Whatever he needs. He also tells his captain that he will be around implying that he will be staying on the force. As the camera pans out from the desert, the movie ends with Somerset quoting Ernesthemingway 'The world is a fine place, and worth fighting for.' I agree with the second part.