Donlockwood  is a popular silent film star with humble roots as a singer, dancer and stunt man. Donlockwood barely tolerates his vapid, shallow leading lady, Linalamont , who has convinced herself that the fake romance their studio concocted and publicized is real.  One day, to escape from overenthusiastic fans, Donlockwood jumps into a passing car driven by Kathyselden.elden . She drops him off, but not before claiming to be a stage actress and sneering at his undignified accomplishments as a cinema actor. Later, at a party, the head of Donlockwood's studio, R.F. Simpson , shows a short demonstration of a talking picture, but his guests are unimpressed. Donlockwood runs into Kathyselden.elden again at the party. To his amusement and her embarrassment, he discovers that Kathyselden.elden is only a chorus girl, part of the entertainment. Furious, she throws a pie at him, only to hit Linalamont right in the face. Later, Donlockwood makes up with Kathyselden.elden and they begin falling in love.  After the first talking picture, The Jazz Singer, proves to be a smash hit, R.F. decides he has no choice but to convert the new Donlockwood and Linalamont film, The Dueling Cavalier, into a talkie. The production is beset with difficulties , by far the worst being Linalamont's comically grating voice. A test screening is a disaster. In one scene, for instance, Donlockwood repeats I love you to Linalamont over and over, to the audience's derisive laughter .  Donlockwood's best friend, Cosmobrown , comes up with the idea to overdub Linalamont's voice with Kathyselden.s and they persuade R.F. to turn The Dueling Cavalier into a musical called The Dancing Cavalier. When Linalamont finds out that Kathyselden.elden is dubbing her voice, she is furious and does everything possible to sabotage the romance between Donlockwood and Kathyselden. She is even more irate when she discovers that Kathyselden.elden will receive screen credit and a big publicity campaign, so she blackmails R.F. into withholding credit, and, later, demands that Kathyselden.elden  continue to do so in the future.  The premiere of The Dueling Cavalier is a tremendous success. When the audience clamors for Linalamont to sing live, Donlockwood, Cosmo and R.F. improvise and get Linalamont to lipsynch while Kathyselden.elden sings into a second microphone while hidden behind the curtain. Unbeknownst to Linalamont, as she starts singing, Donlockwood, Cosmo and R.F. gleefully open the curtain behind her, revealing the deception Linalamont flees in embarrassment. When Kathyselden.elden tries to run away as well, Donlockwood has her stopped and introduces the audience to the real star of the film.  Dan and Kathyselden.elden start singing a love song. Final cue of they both kissing in front of a huge billboard advertising the film Singin' in the Rain with Donlockwood and Kathyselden.elden.