This is the summary for the 169minute Englishsubtitled dvd version.  During the opening credits, the choraleprelude in F minor by Johannsebastianbach is playing.  Part One  Plants move gracefully through a flowing stream of water. A man, Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis, stands silently amidst lush plant life and a rippling lake, observing the living beauty of nature. He walks back through a field, past a lake next to a freestanding wooden house. He washes his hands in the lake as he hears a car approaching. An older man, Bertonvladislavdvorzhetskiy.ladislavdvorzhetskiy, and his young son Vitalikkerdimun get out of the car and are greeted by Chriskelvindonatasbanionis. father Nikolaygrinko, who tells them that Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis makes an hourlong walk each morning. While the boy starts to play with a girl already present, inside the house, Bertonvladislavdvorzhetskiy.ladislavdvorzhetskiy explains he wants to discuss something with Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis they are getting confusing messages from a station in orbit around the planet Solaris, to which Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis himself is scheduled to leave the next day. It begins to rain, but Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis remains outside, immersing himself in the falling drops with a background of singing birds and dripping water.  While drying himself in the house, Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis is shown an old video from Bertonvladislavdvorzhetskiy. one which his father has already seen many times. In the video, a board of inquiry discusses an exploration mission on the planet Solaris. After 24 days, two scientists, Vishnyakov and Fechner, went missing over an ocean in their air vehicle. Due to adverse weather conditions, a massive search was called off, only Bertonvladislavdvorzhetskiy.s craft carried on. When Bertonvladislavdvorzhetskiy.ladislavdvorzhetskiy returned to base, he arrived in deep shock, refusing to get near the ocean ever again. The next part of the video shows a young Bertonvladislavdvorzhetskiy.ladislavdvorzhetskiy giving his testimony due to the adverse flying conditions, his craft had entered an extremely dense fog bank. When he finally cleared the fog, he noticed the ocean became still and transparent. A boiling substance arose from the water, and reshaped into many forms and colors, among which an elaborate garden. A film is started, made by Bertonvladislavdvorzhetskiy.s craft, briefly showing the planet's ocean and some boiling white foam, but to everyone's surprise, the rest of the footage shows only the fog that Bertonvladislavdvorzhetskiy.ladislavdvorzhetskiy mentioned. One of the scientists on the board mentions that the biomagnetic current of the ocean, which is hypothesized to be the planet's cerebral system, may have interfered with the camera, but others imply that Bertonvladislavdvorzhetskiy.ladislavdvorzhetskiy may have been imagining things. The next part of the video shows an apprehensive Bertonvladislavdvorzhetskiy.ladislavdvorzhetskiy describing a twelve feet high shape of an unknown newborn infant appearing on the water surface. The scientists, however, explained away this experience as an elaborate hallucination caused by the atmospheric influence of the planet however, one of the scientists, professor Messengergeorgiyteykh, contends this explanation, and calls for additional probing of the planet. It is implied by his argumentation that many years of study of the planet  have actually yielded very little understanding of Solaris, as the researchers are painfully confronted with the limits of their knowledge. Despite professor Messengergeorgiyteykh's argumentation, the board decides to discontinue all research activities on the planet.  Bertonvladislavdvorzhetskiy.ladislavdvorzhetskiy stops the tape, stating that his story is still ridiculed. He requests to talk to Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis alone, and will be waiting outside. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis. father laments that he and Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis have seen each other so little over the years, but Bertonvladislavdvorzhetskiy.ladislavdvorzhetskiy insisted on coming on this final day before Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis is leaving. Bertonvladislavdvorzhetskiy.s son, playing outside, is scared by the sight of a horse, a species he has apparently never seen before. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis goes outside to talk to Bertonvladislavdvorzhetskiy. Bertonvladislavdvorzhetskiy.ladislavdvorzhetskiy claims that Solaristics has stalled since all that is done is theorizing. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis is not interested in speculations, only in facts all research should either be stopped, or more extreme measures taken to advance the field of Solaristics, like bombarding the planet with highintensity radiation. Bertonvladislavdvorzhetskiy.ladislavdvorzhetskiy disagrees, as he is concerned how immoral science could destroy the planet. When Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis says that all science is, in essence, immoral , and suggests that Bertonvladislavdvorzhetskiy.ladislavdvorzhetskiy may have indeed been hallucinating that day, Bertonvladislavdvorzhetskiy.ladislavdvorzhetskiy angrily leaves by car. Father berates Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis for his cold attitude towards Bertonvladislavdvorzhetskiy. and reminds him that Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis will probably not be back before his own father's funeral.  Chriskelvindonatasbanionis. mother Olgabarnet is watching a program about Solaris the ocean is still theorized to be a thinking substance, despite lack of conclusive evidence. Although there used to be place for 85 scientists at the station, all but three still remain astrobiologist Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn. cyberneticist Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet and physiologist Gibariansossargsyan. The program is interrupted by a video call from Bertonvladislavdvorzhetskiy.s car. Bertonvladislavdvorzhetskiy.ladislavdvorzhetskiy has one thing he wants Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis to know. After the incident, he and professor Messengergeorgiyteykh visited the widow and orphaned son of the deceased scientist Fechner. Fechner's son looked exactly the same as the child that Bertonvladislavdvorzhetskiy.ladislavdvorzhetskiy saw on Solaris' surface. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis is listening in from the next room. Bertonvladislavdvorzhetskiy.ladislavdvorzhetskiy disconnects the call, and during his long car ride through a futuristic city, he seems mesmerized and visibly haunted by memories.  Back at his parents' home, Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis is burning all books and papers related to his research which he no longer needs. He will be taking some personal videos. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis. mother is crying as he puts a picture of a young woman in the fire. He makes one final round through the house as the horse walks by.  Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis makes the trip to the planet, finally arriving at the circular space station that hovers miles above the ocean surface. Once inside the landing bay, there is no one to greet him. He proceeds, to find that the station is in disarray wires are sticking out of the walls, some of the panels seem to be shortcircuiting, and there is junk everywhere. He sees the door to Dr. Snautjrijrvet.s quarters, but there is no response to his knocking. He looks down a hall, and sees a human figure walking away a children's ball is rolling towards him. He then finds Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet in another room, singing. Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet seems startled at the sight of Chriskelvindonatasbanionis. He tells Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis that Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn.natoliysolonitsyn is in his quarters, and Gibariansossargsyan.ossargsyan is dead by suicide. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis knows Gibariansossargsyan.ossargsyan and is skeptical, but Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet says Gibariansossargsyan.ossargsyan was suffering from a profound depression since an unnamed mysterious disorder began. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis insists on meeting with Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn. but Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet replies that Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn.natoliysolonitsyn is in his lab and is unlikely to let Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis in. He shows Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis out, urging him to pick a room and come back tomorrow he also warns him not to lose his head if he sees other people on board, but refuses to elaborate. Just before the door closes, Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis sees another man lying in a makeshift hammock.  After picking a room, Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis goes to Gibariansossargsyan.s quarters. There is a child's drawing titled human being on the door. Gibariansossargsyan.s room is a giant mess, but there is a note addressed to Chriskelvindonatasbanionis taped to a video screen. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis starts the video and sees a recording of Gibariansossargsyan.ossargsyan speaking to him. Gibariansossargsyan.ossargsyan assumes that the others have already informed Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis about his death. He has a warning for Chriskelvindonatasbanionis. but can't explain what is happening he fears it is only the beginning, and everyone will be affected. He assures Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis he has not gone mad as for the research, he agrees with Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn.natoliysolonitsyn that they can only break this deadlock and communicate with the planet by bombarding its oceans with highpowered Xrays, before it draws Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis in too. The door of the apartment starts to open Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis becomes anxious, getting aware of another presence, takes the recording out and goes into the hallway towards the lab. He is drawn to a window and looks outside, but there is nothing in the vast darkness of space. He proceeds to the lab and knocks on the door, trying to reason with the doctor. Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn.natoliysolonitsyn agrees to come out, on the condition that Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis not enter. Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn.natoliysolonitsyn is as nervous as Snautjrijrvet. mentioning that Gibariansossargsyan.ossargsyan may just be the first victim. He had expressed his wish to be buried on Earth, in the dirt. Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn.natoliysolonitsyn mentions that Fechner died a magnificent death in his search for truth, whereas Gibariansossargsyan.ossargsyan died a coward. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis scoffs that such courage is mere inhumanity. Suddenly, the lab door opens and a dwarf runs out Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn.natoliysolonitsyn quickly picks him up and puts him back into the lab, stating that Chriskelvindonatasbanionis is overemotional and should adapt.  Chriskelvindonatasbanionis leaves, noting that the windows, which were dark just before, are suddenly filled with light. Through them, he can see the ocean swirling below. A young woman in a short vest Olgakizilova suddenly passes him by. He follows her through the station into a refrigerated room where he finds the dead body of Gibariansossargsyan.ossargsyan on a slab. He leaves again and returns to Dr. Snautjrijrvet.s quarters, telling him about his unfriendly talk with Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis asks if there are more people on the station, and if the young woman he saw was real Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet seems paranoid and asks Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis if he himself is real, refusing to answer more questions. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis assures the doctor he doesn't believe him to be insane, but Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet retorts that insanity would actually be a blessing.  Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis leaves to his quarters, barricading the door from the inside. He resumes Gibariansossargsyan.s video message, in which the doctor voices his suspicions that the others think he is going mad. The young woman who Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis saw aboard appears next to Gibariansossargsyan. but he pushes her away. He makes a paranoid impression, expressing his fear of the other two doctors and saying he 'has to do it'. When Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet and Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn.natoliysolonitsyn are heard knocking on the door in the video, urging Gibariansossargsyan.ossargsyan to come out, Gibariansossargsyan.ossargsyan picks up a syringe. He states he has not gone mad, his conscience is simply torturing him, implying the girl has something to do with it. He finally laments that Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis did not come earlier and stops the recording. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis lies down on the bed, keeping a gun next to him, falling asleep. When he wakes up, he finds a woman Natalyabondarchuk sitting in a chair nearby. She wears a mantle which she takes off, and puts it over a chair. She walks over to him and they kiss, but Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis is confused, unable to believe what he sees and asks her how she found him. The woman seems unaware of any problem with her presence. She finds a framed picture of herself among Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis belongings, and only realizes it is her while looking in the mirror. She seems not to remember having this picture taken. She asks if he loves her, but Chriskelvindonatasbanionis. calling her 'Haris., says she already knows that. He asks her to stay behind for a short while, but she wants to stay with him at all times, despite his objections. She says he is as nervous as Snautjrijrvet. confusing Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis even further. He invites her along, but asks her to put on a suit. She asks him for help with her dress Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis finds that the dress won't open, and there is a tear in it at the arm, with a puncture mark in Haris.s skin. He uses scissors to cut the dress open. Haris. notices Chriskelvindonatasbanionis. anxiousness as he sees that his door is still barricaded from the inside.  Part Two  Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis takes Haris. to the landing bay, where he readies a rocket from the station for departure. He urges her to enter it first under the pretense that he has to enter last to close it. After she has entered, he quickly traps her inside and starts the liftoff sequence. Despite her screams and pleas, Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis tries to leave but finds that he is locked inside the room. He tries to take cover underneath a blanket, but sustains some burns on his suit and face from the launch. Disturbed by his own action, he returns to his room and douses himself under a shower. Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet enters, implying that he knows Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis had company and probing him about his response to the event. He seems to know fully well what Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis did with Haris. and tells him not to panic 'next time'. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis tells him the woman had died 10 years earlier. According to Snautjrijrvet. she was a manifestation of his perception of her. The manifestations started after an experiment where Xrays were applied to the surface of the ocean. Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet says that Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis is fortunate that his manifestation is a figure from the past, because it can also be an imagined person. Apparently, the ocean has probed the scientists' minds and extracted isolated parts of memory from it more Haris. will probably appear. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis asks why Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet did not warn him this would happen, but Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet replies he would not have believed him anyway. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis admits he was scared and acted wrongly, but quickly focuses on his task of liquidating the station, asking for Snautjrijrvet.s support. Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet implies that this encounter with Haris. is just what Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis may have always wanted. He attaches some paper to the air vents, an idea of Gibariansossargsyan.ossargsyan to simulate the sounds of leafs, as on Earth. He urges Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis to rest and meet him in the library later, to give him some books.  Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis goes to sleep and has vivid dreams. He awakens thinking Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet has entered the room. However, it is Haris. who is back. She takes a pair of scissors and opens her dress herself, and puts her mantle over the chair, seemingly not surprised by the mantle and dress already present. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis takes her in bed and acts as if everything is normal. Sometime later, Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis takes her mantle and dress, and exits the room, leaving Haris. sleeping. He closes the door, but Haris. immediately starts to pound on it from the other side, pushing herself through the metal door and severely lacerating herself. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis quickly stuffs the dress and mantle in a corner and carries Haris. onto a bed. He picks up something to tend to her wounds, but to his astonishment, the wounds on her arms have already closed within seconds. She sits upright and says that she panicked when she noticed that Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis was not around. There is a call on the phone from Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet he asks about the situation and says that Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn.natoliysolonitsyn has summoned everyone to the laboratory. Haris. has also noticed that her wounds have already healed, and is deeply disturbed by it.  Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet and Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn.natoliysolonitsyn see Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis approaching as he shows Haris. around the station. He lets her introduce herself. Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn.natoliysolonitsyn explains that, while people are made of atoms, the Visitors are made out of neutrinos. Neutrino systems are inherently unstable, so the planet must send out a magnetic field that keeps them stable. Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn.natoliysolonitsyn calls Haris. an 'excellent specimen', but Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis really considers her his wife. Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn.natoliysolonitsyn suggests that Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis take a blood sample from his socalled 'wife' to clarify some things.  Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis finds out that Haris.s blood keeps regenerating itself, as if she is immortal. Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn.natoliysolonitsyn implies that Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis should try an autopsy on Haris. reasoning that the Visitors are inferior to lower animals on Earth. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis is shocked, indicating that Haris. feels pain as any human being, and warning Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn.natoliysolonitsyn to stay away from her. Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn.natoliysolonitsyn admits that he is somewhat jealous of the emotional contact between Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis and his Visitor. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis sarcastically comments that this makes him feel guilty, and leaves.  The liquid surface of Solaris is swirling violently. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis shows Haris. a home video made by himself and his father. It shows Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis as a boy, a woman and a man in a snowy landscape around their house. The film jumps several years ahead, showing an teenage Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis and his mother in the same setting during spring. It then shows Haris. in winter, wearing the same dress and mantle as the Visitor Haris. After the film is finished, Haris. looks in a mirror and says she does not know herself as soon as she closes her eyes, she cannot remember her face. She suddenly remembers that the woman in the video hated her. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis tries to assure her that this woman already died before he met Haris. but Haris. is not fooled, as she remembers vividly how the woman told her to leave the house. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis reveals that after that event, he was transferred for his work, and Haris. refused to come with him something she also remembers.  Haris. sleeps, but Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis can't. Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet knocks on the door, and while bandaging his hand, he tells Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis that the rate of regeneration has slowed down, so they will be rid of the Visitors for 2 or 3 hours. He reasons that since Solaris extracts the Visitors from the scientists' minds during sleep, they should send their waking thoughts towards the planet by Xrays, which will hopefully stop the apparitions. Although Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis does not like the experiments with Xrays, Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet proposes modulating the beam with the brain waves of Chriskelvindonatasbanionis. However, Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis fears that the planet may read that he wants to get rid of Haris. and it will kill her. Both men do not realize that Haris. is awake and hears everything. Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet mentions that Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn.natoliysolonitsyn is working on another project, something called the 'Annihilator', which can destroy neutrino systems. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis feels this is blackmail, to get him to cooperate with the brain wave project. In order to make up, Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet mentions tomorrow is his birthday, and that all are invited. He notices that it is worrying that Haris. already knows how to sleep. He invites Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis to come with him to Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn. leaving Haris. to sleep. As Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis leaves, Haris. seems to sob under her blanket. At the lab, Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis suddenly says he forgot something, and returns to his quarters. He grabs Haris. hugs her passionately and asks her to forgive him. They kiss as clouds roll over the liquid surface of Solaris.  Haris. is standing next to the bed as Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis is waking up. She is apparently confused about her origin and claims Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis does not love her. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis does not understand, so she explains that the real Haris. poisoned herself, meaning she must be someone else. She is saddened that it Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn.natoliysolonitsyn who told her the night before, and not Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis himself, and she does not want to continue this way, fearing for Chriskelvindonatasbanionis. wellbeing. She asks him to tell her about the real Haris. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis explains that at the end of their relationship, they quarreled a lot, and Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis left, even though he often thought of her. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis implies that Haris. threatened with suicide, but he left anyway, until he remembered that he had left an experimental liquid in the fridge. He went back, but Haris. had already injected herself with this poisonous liquid. Visitor Haris. is distressed when she sees a needle mark on her arm as well. She asks Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis why real Haris. did it Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis believes that she incorrectly thought he did not love her anymore. Visitor Haris. says how much she loves him he urges her to sleep, but she says that even her sleep feels unreal.  In the library, everyone is waiting for Snautjrijrvet. Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn. who is immersed in his books, says Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet may be delayed due to more Visitors. Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet arrives an hour and a half late, much to Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn. chagrin, and once again makes a very incoherent impression. He hands Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis a book from a pile for him to read out loud, while giving Haris. a kiss on her hand. It is an excerpt from Donquixote, where Sancho praises the blessings of sleep. Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn.natoliysolonitsyn proposes a toast to Snautjrijrvet.s courage and devotion to science. Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet responds that science is a fraud, and claims their present scientific problem won't be solved. He says mankind has no ambition to conquer the cosmos Man simply wants to extend Earth's borders, wanting no others worlds, but only mirrors to see his own in. Attempts at contact with extraterrestrials is doomed to fail, as the goal is one mankind fears and does not need Man needs Man, he concludes. Instead, he proposes a toast to Gibariansossargsyan. who was fearful. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis does not agree, stating that he thinks Gibariansossargsyan.ossargsyan committed suicide because he thought he was alone in what happened to him, seeing no other way out. Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn.natoliysolonitsyn counters this, claiming that nature created Man to gain knowledge in search of truth he criticizes Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis for only showing interest in lying in bed with his exwife all day, and Gibariansossargsyan.ossargsyan for being contemptible. Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet quickly quells the argument. Haris. is visibly disturbed by the exchange of words she claims that Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis is the only one displaying some humanity under inhumane conditions, whereas the other two do not seem to care and regard their Visitors as external enemies. She claims the Visitors are their conscience, and Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis may indeed love her, or show a humane reaction at the very least, unlike the others, who she resents. Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn.natoliysolonitsyn becomes confrontational again, questioning her right of existence, as the real Haris. is dead and she is a mere reproduction or copy. Haris. acknowledges this, but says she is becoming human she can feel and love, and can exist independent from Chriskelvindonatasbanionis. She walks away, hurt by Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn. cruel words, and knocks over a chandelier. She tries to take a drink, but cannot swallow it, breaking down in tears. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis tries to comforts her, much to Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn. disgust, who leaves. Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet says that all the quarreling makes them loose their humanity and dignity. In tears, Haris. says that each of them is human in his own way, and thats why they quarrel. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis thanks Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet for his continuing kindness. Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet is inebriated he says he is completely worn out and starts a walk with Chriskelvindonatasbanionis. He says that he is entitled to get drunk for all the sacrifices he has made for the mission. He likens Sartoriusanatoliysolonitsyn.natoliysolonitsyn with Faust, as he is seeking a way against immortality. They walk through the station, Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet singing and talking gibberish about communicating with the planet. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis wants to return as he left Haris. alone in the library. Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet warns him that the station is shifting orbit, so there will be 30 seconds of weightlessness at 1700 hours.  Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis returns to the library, finding Haris. sitting and smoking, lost in thoughts. She thinks of voices as she looks intensely at a painting in the library, depicting a lively winter landscape back on Earth. She has a brief memory of Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis as a boy, standing in the snow as well. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis awakens her from her trance. Objects as well as Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis and Haris. start to float due to weightlessness. They share a short moment of happiness amidst the art in the room as the gravity comes back.  The planet surface starts to make boiling movements. There is a sound of something shattering as Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis finds Haris. lying dead on the floor in the main corridor, having immersed herself with liquid oxygen. When Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet enters the corridor, Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis tells him she killed herself out of desperation. Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet says that it will get worse as she gets more human from being around Chriskelvindonatasbanionis. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis intends to wait until she revives, but Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet warns him that Haris. cannot live outside the station. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis says he has no choice, as he loves her, but Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet tells him that what he loves is just a scientific anomaly that can be endlessly regenerated, and implies he should do something about it. As he leaves, he says he could never get used to the continuous resurrections. The shock of the revival is apparently agonizing for Haris. as she convulses and realizes to her horror that she is alive again. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis tries to calm her down, assuring that even if her presence is a torment from the ocean, she means more to him than all science ever could but Haris. goes into hysterics, repeating that she should not exist. Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet suddenly runs past them with a box.  Clouds evaporate from the swirling ocean. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis puts Haris. on the bed, and assures her he will stay with her on the station. They embrace and Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis falls asleep. He awakens, soaked in sweat. As if in a dreamlike state, he wanders through the central corridor, finding Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet looking outside. He says that the ocean seems to be more active due to Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis encephalogram. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis makes some incoherent philosophical remarks about life, souls and suffering, and the nature of love as something inexplicable and perhaps the reason of human existence. Apparently feverish, he stumbles on, supported by Haris. and Snautjrijrvet. He surmises Gibariansossargsyan.ossargsyan did not actually die out of fear, but out of shame. The salvation of humanity is in its shame, he proclaims. He is put to bed and has feverish dreams of his parental home, Haris. his mother as a young woman and his dog aboard the station. He has a conversation with his young mother in her home, as if he has just returned to Earth. The painting in the station's library is hanging on a wall in the house, and there are plastic sheets covering some of the walls. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis tells her he almost forgot her face, and says he is unhappy and alone his mother asks why he never called them. She asks him why he is seemingly neglecting himself. She notices stains on his arm, which she washes off. The reunion causes Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis to cry. He then awakens to the sound of Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet boiling water. Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet gives him a letter, saying Haris. is gone. Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet reads out her letter she is sorry for deceiving Chriskelvindonatasbanionis. but she saw no other solution. It was her decision, and none of the others are to blame. Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet adds that she did it for him. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis is shocked and asked how it went. Apparently, the Annihilator caused an explosion of light, and then a breath of wind. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis tearfully reminds himself of all his quarrels with her the past few days, and asks why they are so tormented. Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet replies that it is because Mankind, unlike his primitive ancestors, has lost his believe in greater Cosmic powers, and draws a parallel with the myth of Sisyphus . Since Chriskelvindonatasbanionis. encephalogram was sent down to the planet, the Visitors have stopped appearing, and now, islands are appearing on the ocean's surface. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis believes that the planet may finally understand them now.  Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis and Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet continue their philosophical talk in the library. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis asks if Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet feels a clear link with the life below after so many years on the station. Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet cryptically remarks that the meaning of life and other eternal questions only interest unhappy people, and such questions should be asked at the end of one's life Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis still sees Haris.s cloak hanging on a chair, and mentions mankind is always in a hurry since they never know when their life will end. The happiest people are the ones who never ask such questions we question life to seek meaning, yet to preserve all the simple human truths like happiness, death and love, we need mysteries. Not knowing the date of your death practically makes one immortal.  As clouds roll by, Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis is immersed in thought, narrating that his mission is over. There is now the option to go back to Earth and let everything be normal again, to resume his life. But he also thinks that is no longer a reasonable option. The other possibility is to stay, even for an imaginary possibility of contact with the ocean, which his race is desperately trying to attain. And perhaps hoping for Haris. to return. But he has no more hope and can only wait for a new miracle.  In the station, Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet tells Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis that he thinks it is time for Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis to return to Earth. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis questions this opinion, smiles and looks at the box which Snautjrijrvet.rijrvet was carrying earlier. It contains a growing plant.  Once again, plants are gracefully moving through a flowing stream of water. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis is back on his parents' land, observing the lake which is frozen. He returns to the house where his dog is running to him. The fire outside where he burnt his books is still smoking. Looking inside the house, there is water dripping inside the living room. Chriskelvindonatasbanionis. father is sorting books as he moves under the drops of water, smoke comes off him. The old man notices Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis and goes outside. As Chriskelvindonatasbanionis.elvindonatasbanionis gets on his knees and hugs his father, the camera pulls back through the swirling clouds, revealing that the house, the lake and the surrounding land are lying on a small island amidst the vast ocean on Solaris.  The End