Joeampjerry.mpjerry and Joeampjerry. a saxophonist and bassist, respectively, are two workingclass musicians, working in a Chicago speakeasy in February, 1929. Though they have steady work, they still owe money to many of their friends. However, Joeampjerry. the optimist, isn't worried since the gig they have seems to be stable. Joeampjerry.mpjerry does flirt briefly with the idea of taking all the money he and Joeampjerry have and betting it on a greyhound race but the plan is soon discarded.  Fortune changes a few minutes later when a police officer, Mulligan, working on a hot tip from a mob informant, Toothpickcharlie, raids the place for illegal liquor sales. The speakeasy itself belongs to Chicago's most notorious mob boss, Spatscolombo. Joeampjerry.mpjerry and Joeampjerry barely escape the raid. Jobless, they try to figure out a plan to earn money Joeampjerry.mpjerry suggests they hock their overcoats and bet the money on a long shot at the dog racing track. Joeampjerry.s plan fails miserably and the guys are more broke than ever during a bitterly cold Chicago winter.  Joeampjerry.mpjerry and Joeampjerry go to the offices of their talent agents, whom have no work for them. They go to the last one, Sigpoliakoff's, where Joeampjerry.mpjerry talks to the receptionist, Nellie, whom he has been dating. She tells him that Sigpoliakoff has openings for a sax player and bass player in a band that will be traveling to Florida. In Sig's office, Sig is on the phone frantically trying to find replacement musicians for Sweet Sue, the band's leader, and her assistant, Beinstock. Sue's band is allfemale and she has a strict NO MEN policy Sue's frustrated because one of her players got pregnant and another ran off to get engaged. Joeampjerry and Joeampjerry. not knowing Sue is looking for women, burst into Sig's office and ask for the gig. Sigpoliakoff informs them that they're the wrong gender, but he does have a gig in Urbana, Illinois, for one night. Joeampjerry.mpjerry and Joeampjerry accept and con Nellie into loaning them her car to drive to the gig.  Joeampjerry.mpjerry and Joeampjerry go to the garage where Nellie's car awaits. A group of shadylooking men are playing cards in the corner, one of them is Toothpickcharlie. While the mechanic fills the car with gas, a large limo rolls into the garage and several gang members, armed with shotguns and Thompson machine guns get out. Joeampjerry.mpjerry and Joeampjerry hide behind Nellie's car while everyone else is lined up against the wall. The gangsters who burst into the place work for Spatscolombo, who steps from the limo. He has come to Toothpickcharlie's garage seeking revenge for the speakeasy being busted. He gives the command and his men slaughter everyone against the wall . The gas nozzle in Nellie's car suddenly pops out when the tank is full and clatters on the ground, drawing the attention of Spats' men, who see Joeampjerry.mpjerry and Joeampjerry. Spats orders them to be killed too, while at the same time, Toothpickcharlie, still alive, tries to reach a nearby phone. Spats grabs a Thompson and kills Toothpickcharlie, temporarily forgetting Joeampjerry.mpjerry and Joeampjerry. who escape. One of Spats' goons shoots at them but only succeeds in hitting Joeampjerry.s bass. Joeampjerry.mpjerry and Joeampjerry. now on the run, call Sigpoliakoff's office, planning to fool their agent into thinking they're the women musicians needed for Sweet Sue's band.  Joeampjerry.mpjerry and Joeampjerry. dressed as women, arrive at the train station. They use false names Joeampjerry.mpjerry becomes Josephine and Joeampjerry becomes Daphne . They meet Sue and Beinstock and fool them effectively enough to be hired. They also spot the band's singer and ukulele player, the attractive and blond Sugarkowalczyk. Both men are instantly attracted to her, especially Joeampjerry.  During a band practice on the train Sugar drops a flask of bourbon alcohol is strictly forbidden by Sue. Beinstock reminds Sugar that he warned her not to hide liquor, however, Joeampjerry tells them it's his flask and covers for Sugar. Later that night, Sugar sneaks into Joeampjerry.s berth to thank Daphne for covering for her. Joeampjerry suggests that they both share a drink of whiskey, which Joeampjerry steals from Joeampjerry.s suitcase in the berth below his. The other women in the band quickly discover Joeampjerry and Sugar and assume they're having a party. Joeampjerry.mpjerry and Sugar go to the ladies' room to prepare some ice and during their conversation, Sugar tells Joeampjerry.mpjerry that she's had bad luck with romance and men and that she has a softspot for saxophone players. Joeampjerry.mpjerry is floored but keeps his composure and they share a drink together. In his berth, Joeampjerry finds that the other girls are becoming a bit too physical and, afraid they'll find out his true identity, pulls the emergency cord, stopping the train. All the girls spill out of his berth and the party grinds to halt, Sweet Sue flustered by the whole ordeal.  The train arrives in Florida and the band is taken to their hotel. Joeampjerry.mpjerry leaves Joeampjerry to carry all their luggage and as Joeampjerry climbs the steps to the entrance, he loses a shoe. A rich man, Osgood Fielding III places it back on her feet and proceeds with improper advances toward Joeampjerry.s alter ego. Joeampjerry fights the man off after he gropes him in the elevator. In their room, Joeampjerry tells Joeampjerry.mpjerry they should leave the band and go further into hiding. Joeampjerry.mpjerry tells him they should stay in disguise since Colombo's gang would never look for them in an allwoman band. Joeampjerry.mpjerry is also attracted to Sugar, though he doesn't sight that as a reason for staying, and has his own plans to woo her. Sugar shows up and invites the two to the beach Joeampjerry joins her but Joeampjerry.mpjerry declines. After they leave, Joeampjerry.mpjerry takes out a suitcase he'd stolen from Beinstock  and dresses up in a fashionable sailor's outfit. Joeampjerry.mpjerry goes down to the beach and sits in a chair, reading the Wall Street Journal. He attracts the attention of Sugar and presents himself as an heir to the Shell Oil Corporation. Sugar begins to flirt with him, however, he remains aloof, telling her he's waiting for a signal from his yacht offshore. Joeampjerry happens by and instantly recognizes Joeampjerry. He convinces Sugar to go back to his and Joeampjerry.s hotel room to expose him as an impostor. Joeampjerry.mpjerry beats them back there and they find him in the tub, covered with bubbles and posing as Josephine. Sugar tells Josephine that she's probably met a millionaire and she leaves. When she does, Joeampjerry launches into a tirade about faking an identity on the beach and that Joeampjerry.mpjerry is trying to take advantage of Sugar. Joeampjerry.mpjerry responds by rising out of the tub, still in his Shell Oil Jr. outfit, and plops his wet wig down on Joeampjerry.s head. Joeampjerry receives a shiptoshore call from Osgoodosgood wants to invite Daphne to have dinner with him aboard his yacht. Joeampjerry.mpjerry takes charge of the invitation and tells Joeampjerry to persuade Osgood to take him to a dinner and dancing club instead of the yacht. Joeampjerry.mpjerry will go to the yacht as Shell Oil Jr. with Sugar.  That night, while Joeampjerry.mpjerry play with the band at dinner, Joeampjerry receives a giant bouquet of flowers from Osgood. When the gig ends, Joeampjerry.mpjerry rushes back to his room and assumes the disguise, while Joeampjerry and Osgood go to the restaurant. Joeampjerry.mpjerry arrives at the dock just before Sugar and takes her to the yacht on Osgood's boat. While the two have drinks and eat, Joeampjerry.mpjerry again acts aloof towards Sugar, trying to persuade her to kiss him. At first he acts as though he has a psychological block that prevents him from enjoying their romantic evening, but Sugar eventually turns him on. On the shore, Osgood and Joeampjerry dance the tango all night.  Sugar and Joeampjerry.mpjerry return to the mainland, apparently in love. He bids farewell to Sugar and climbs up to his room where Joeampjerry is lying on one of the beds. Joeampjerry tells Joeampjerry.mpjerry he's engaged when Joeampjerry.mpjerry asks who's the lucky girl Joeampjerry says he is himself because Osgood proposed to Daphne. The two have a brief debate where Joeampjerry reveals his plan to marry Osgood and tell him the truth right after the ceremony. He plans to extort a large settlement out of Osgood and live on the alimony checks he believes he'll receive. Joeampjerry.mpjerry convinces Joeampjerry that he's committing fraud and will be caught. Joeampjerry shows Joeampjerry.mpjerry the pricey diamond bracelet Osgood gave to him as an engagement gift, saying he'll return it. Joeampjerry.mpjerry suggests they keep it, perhaps thinking they can hock it for cash.  In the hotel lobby, Spatscolombo and his goons arrive for a convention of Friends of Italian Opera, which is actually a meeting of organized crime gangsters. The organization and meeting are being led by Littlebonaparte, the most powerful gangster there. Littlebonaparte already has a rivalry with Spats, which has been exacerbated by Spats' murder of Toothpickcharlie, who was a good friend of Littlebonaparte. Joeampjerry and Joeampjerry. in the lobby, spot Spats and his crew and immediately get into the elevator to return to their room. Just as the doors are about to close, Spats and his men enter the elevator Joeampjerry and Joeampjerry.s disguises work on them and they make it to their room.  They pack hurriedly and Joeampjerry.mpjerry wants to take care of one last detail Sugar. He calls her and once again uses his Shell Oil Jr. voice, telling her that he has to leave suddenly. His parents have told him to marry a woman who is the daughter of another millionaire with a large empire. As a final gesture, Joeampjerry.mpjerry leaves a bouquet of flowers outside Sugar's room with Osgood's diamond bracelet  hidden inside. Sugar is devastated but accepts the gift.  Joeampjerry and Joeampjerry.mpjerry climb out the window to avoid running into the gangsters again. However, their path takes them right past Spats' balcony and they're spotted. Spats grabs the bass Joeampjerry left behind and sees the bullet holes from when the two escaped in Chicago. Spats and his men chase them through the hotel but lose them. At one point, Joeampjerry and Joeampjerry.mpjerry disguise themselves as a bellhop and a man in a wheelchair and duck into a banquet room, the same room all the gangsters will be eating dinner in. While they hide under the huge table, a pair of shoes with spats on them slides under the table. The two sit still and wait.  Littlebonaparte begins the meeting with a lengthy criticism of Spats himself, admonishing him for the assassination on Valentine's Day. Littlebonaparte seems to forgive Spats' indiscretion and lightens the mood by announcing they will celebrate Spats' birthday. Spats points out that his birthday isn't for a few months but Littlebonaparte insists they still have a large cake for Spats. After the cake is brought in, the entire room sings to Spats and a gangster pops up out of the cake and shoots Spats and his crew with a Thompson. Joeampjerry and Joeampjerry.mpjerry burst out from under the table and run out of the room. Just as Littlebonaparte orders his men to catch them, Chicago cop Mulligan walks in and demands to know what happened. Littlebonaparte avoids the question and Mulligan promises to start a federal investigation.  Joeampjerry and Joeampjerry.mpjerry retreat to their room, fixing their disguises once again. They overhear a gangster saying that they've got all the standard escape routes covered. Joeampjerry.mpjerry realizes that they can escape on Osgood's yacht and tells Joeampjerry to call the millionaire and accept his marriage proposal. Before they leave, Joeampjerry.mpjerry wanders into the dining and dancing hall of the hotel and sees Sugar singing I'm Through With Love. Moved, Joeampjerry.mpjerry approaches her and kisses her. Sugar realizes who Josephine really is and leaves the band, following Joeampjerry.mpjerry and Joeampjerry to Osgood's speedboat. They all board it and head for the yacht. Joeampjerry.mpjerry tries to tells Sugar that he's a cad who took advantage of her and that he's a sax player who will only treat her badly. Sugar doesn't care and kisses him anyway. Joeampjerry begins to tell Osgood that he's equally as treacherous, that he smokes and can't have children, however Osgood doesn't care. Joeampjerry. frustrated, finally pulls off his wig and tells Osgood he's actually a man. Osgood replies, Well, nobody's perfect.