Tenyearoldchihirodaveighchase in the 2002 English dub and her parents Laurenholly and  Michaelchiklis drive to their new home. Chihiro is whiny and unhappy about the move, especially when she notices that the bouquet her friend gave her as a goodbye gift is wilting. In sight of their new house, they take a wrong turn and follow a bumpy, decayed old road through the woods Chihiro sees an odd old statue through the trees as they drive by. The road ends at a tunnel leading to an abandoned theme park. It gives Chihiro the creeps, but her parents persuade her to go in with them and look around.  After wandering across a grassy landscape and a dry riverbed, they climb a stone staircase and come to a street lined with restaurants and shops. Most are deserted, but the aroma of cooking leads them to the one restaurant that's well stocked with food  though it's mysteriously deserted. Mom and Dad are hungry and start eating, despite Chihiro's objections. The food is delicious, and Chihiro wanders away to explore while they eat. She finds a towering, ornate building that she recognizes as a bathhouse  there's a train track running under it. She meets a boy Jasonmarsden in traditional dress who is alarmed to see her he tells her to leave and get back across the river before it gets dark. Chihiro runs back to her parents, but they're still eating  and they've turned into pigs. Strange, dark, ghostly figures appear in all the shops and streets, frightening Chihiro and separating her from the pigs that were her parents. Chihiro runs back to the river, which was nearly dry when they came over but is now full and large, and she doesn't even recognize the buildings on the far side. As a riverboat approaches, she notices that her body has become transparent.  The riverboat lands a big crowd of people in costume  or maybe they're not people at first they're only visible as paper masks. Chihiro thinks shes dreaming, but can't wake up. The boy who warned her away finds her and tells her she must eat some food from his world or she'll fade away. He assures her that she won't turn into a pig. She swallows the morsel he gives her and becomes solid, but finds that shes stuck to the ground until he recites an incantation to release her. A bird with a woman's head flies above them and he hides her, saying the bird is looking for her. They run through alleys and the pig barn to the big bathhouse, which is accessed by a bridge the boy says she has to hold her breath as they cross the bridge or the spell that makes her invisible will be broken. Customers  fantastically varied god and spirits  are crossing the bridge and being greeted by bathhouse staff. Chihiro makes it almost all the way across, but a frog Bobbergen that speaks to her companion  startles her and she takes a breath. Luckily only the frog seems to see her, and Masterhaku uses magic to encase it in a bubble to shut it up.  Masterhaku tells her to find Kamajiidavidogdenstiers.avidogdenstiers, the boiler man, and make him give her a job she must have a job to stay at the bathhouse, or else Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette Yubabasuzannepleshette, the old witch who rules the bathhouse, will turn her into an animal. And Masterhaku says she has to stay if she wants to find and help her parents, who are still pigs, wherever they are. He knows her name and says he's known her since she was very small.  Chihiro descends a steep, winding, railless wooden stairway in search of Kamajiidavidogdenstiers.avidogdenstiers and the boiler room. When she finds them, she sees a weird setup in which the boiler is fed by creatures like spiders  and the machinery is controlled by a bearded, bald man with six arms and dark glasses  Kamajiidavidogdenstiers. She asks for a job, but he says  after grumbling about four bath tokens at once, as four red plaques on purple ribbons descend from the ceiling  that he's cast a spell on sootballs  so he has all the workers he needs. Chihiro has to keep moving to stay out the way of Kamajiidavidogdenstiers.avidogdenstiers and the sootballs. She picks up a lump of coal that's too heavy for the sootball carrying it  and almost too heavy for her  and Kamajiidavidogdenstiers.avidogdenstiers tells her to finish what she started, so she hauls it over to the furnace and tosses it in. All the sootballs pretend to collapse under the weight of their coal so they won't have to work, but Kamajiidavidogdenstiers.avidogdenstiers scolds them and Chihiro, saying that if they don't keep working, the spell will wear off. A young woman comes in with food for Kamajiidavidogdenstiers.avidogdenstiers and the sootballs. The woman is shocked to see Chihiro youre the human everyone is looking for but Kamajiidavidogdenstiers.avidogdenstiers says shes his granddaughter and asks the woman to take Chihiro to Yubabasuzannepleshette. who will give her something to do. The woman, whose name is Linsusanegan, only agrees when Kamajiidavidogdenstiers.avidogdenstiers offers her a roasted newt she brusquely tells Chihiro to leave her shoes and socks behind and to thank the boiler man  he's really sticking his neck out for you.  They take three elevators to Yubabasuzannepleshette.s rooms on the top floor, seeing many of the bathhouse's clients  Linsusanegan calls one a radish spirit  between elevators. An elevator operator who hasn't spotted Chihiro tells Linsusanegan she smells just like a human. Linsusanegan distracts him with the roasted newt that Kamajiidavidogdenstiers.avidogdenstiers gave her while Chihiro escapes in the last elevator with the radish spirit. They arrive at a courtyardlike room with a mosaic floor and two big front doors Chihiro tries to open one. The door knocker says, aren't you even going to knock You're the most pathetic little girl I've ever seen The doors open and the same voice Yubabasuzannepleshette  it's Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette  tells her to come in she's pulled through the house into a firelit room in which several disembodied green heads bounce around, and Yubabasuzannepleshette. an old woman with a huge head, works at a desk. Chihiro asks for a job, but Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette calls it foolishness, makes disparaging remarks about Chihiro, and silences her with magic. She smokes a cigarette as she considers what to do with Chihiro. She lifts the silencing spell to ask Chihiro who helped her, but Chihiro only continues to ask for work, which makes Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette angry. When Chihiro persists, Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette offers, maybe I'll give you the most difficult job I've got and work you until you breathe your very last breath. They're interrupted when Yubabasuzannepleshette.s enormous baby, Bh Tara Strong wakes up, which Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette blames on Chihiro. Chihiro keeps asking for work and Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette finally agrees to give her a job if she'll be quiet. Chihiro signs a contract while Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette grouses, I can't believe I took that oath to give a job to anyone who asks. Yubabasuzannepleshette. observing that Chihiro is a pretty name, magically lifts all but one of the characters of Chihiro's name from the contract and says that the name belongs to her now. Reading the one character that remains of Chihiro's name, Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette says from now on, your name is Hassen. Masterhaku  comes to show her what to do. He says she must address him as Masterhaku.  None of the workers want to take Chihirosen into their department, complaining that she smells bad, but Masterhaku says her smell will be gone after three days of eating their food. Masterhaku assigns ChihiroHassen to work with Linsusanegan because Linsusanegan had been asking for an assistant. Linsusanegan takes Hassen to their room, which they share with several others, and gives her clothing . Hassen asks if there are two Masterhaku.. Linsusanegan says no, and that Hassen must be careful what she says to Masterhaku because he's Yubabasuzannepleshette.s henchman. Hassen doesn't feel well.  Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette turns into a bird with a human head and flies off her balcony with a smaller but otherwise identical humanheaded bird.  As Hassen lies sleeping among her new coworkers, a voice  says meet me at the bridge I'll take you to your parents. She wakes up, dresses in her new clothes, and goes down to the boiler room where she left her shoes. When she observes my shoes are gone, the sootballs bring them out of the tunnels where they live.  Hassen makes her way out to the bridge, where a semitransparent spirit is standing. It wears a white mask and a black robe. Silently, it watches her cross it was standing in the same spot in the middle of the bridge when she crossed the night before. Masterhaku finds her at the other side and leads her through flowering shrubs to the huge piggery. He says she must never come there without him. She identifies a couple of sleeping pigs  there are hundreds  as her parents, and promises to help them. Masterhaku says she must remember which pigs are her parents. He gives her back her old clothes, which she'll need to escape, and a card with her real name, Chihiro, which Hassen has almost forgotten already.  Masterhaku says Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette exerts power over people by stealing their names she must not forget hers as he has forgotten his. He gives her something to eat. She cries as she eats and he tries to comfort her. Then Masterhaku has to go he leaves her at the bridge. When she turns back to look for him, she sees a dragon flying away and realizes that it's Masterhaku. Later, Kamajiidavidogdenstiers.avidogdenstiers finds Hassen asleep on the floor of the boiler room he covers her up.  Yubabasuzannepleshette.ird and her smaller companion fly home through heavy rain. Inside the bathhouse, Linsusanegan asks Hassen where she was Hassen apologizes but doesn't explain. Hassen. Linsusanegan, and others girls wash a floor until a man comes to say they get the big tub today, though the women don't usually get that kind of work  that's frog work, as Linsusanegan says. As Hassen dumps her pail out the garden door, she sees the silent spirit from the bridge standing outside in the rain looking in. She asks if he's getting wet and leaves the door open for him he follows her in.  They discover that the big tub is encrusted with crud and will need to be soaked before they can clean it properly, so Linsusanegan sends Hassen to the foreman Johnratzenberger for an herbal soap token. Far above in her apartment, Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette senses something approaching. She looks out and wonders who is slinking around in the rain. A spirit that looks like a pile of mud is making its way toward the bathhouse.  The foreman refuses to give Hassen a soap token, but the silent spirit liberates one for her. As they fill the big tub to soak it clean, Linsusanegan says the water contains salts that are supposed to be good for you. The silent spirit Bobbergen again approaches Hassen and offers a handful of soap tokens.  When she politely turns them down, he seems disappointed and lets the tokens fall to the floor. She's distracted when the big tub overflows.  Meanwhile, Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette has identified the walking mudpile as a stink spirit, though she's suspicious that he isn't really. The staff fails to fend him off, so Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette assigns Hassen to take him to the big tub and bathe him. Hassen can hardly speak because he smells so bad. He's surrounded by a pool of purple stinkiness. He gets in the big tub, which overflows with his brownish slime.  Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette and the foreman watch as Hassen tries to clean the stink spirit. She uses the silent spirit's herbal soap tokens to order up some good, cleansing hot water. As Linsusanegan arrives to help, Hassen feels something like a thorn in the stink spirit's side. Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette decides this is important and gives Hassen rope to tie to the thorn  with help from all the staff, they pull a bicycle out of the spirit's body, followed by an entire junkyard. Hayaomiyazaki has said that this part of the story is autobiographical  he once pulled a bicycle out of a polluted, litterclogged river. When the slime clears, an ancientlooking brown face with shaggy eyebrows appears and says well done to Hassen. He seems to disappear, leaving her with a handful of something greenish. Then he explodes out of the tub like a giant white snake  or perhaps a dragon   and flies away, leaving lots of gold behind. Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette is delighted. The guest was a river spirit in distress, not a stink spirit. Hassen sees the silent spirit sitting in the corner, apart from all the excitement.  At bedtime, Linsusanegan and Hassen sit on their balcony eating dumplings. When Hassen asks about Masterhaku. Linsusanegan says the word is he does Yubabasuzannepleshette.s dirty work. They watch a train go by on the water.  Linsusanegan says she has to get out of that place  someday I'm getting on that train. Hassen tastes the green stuff the river spirit gave her, but finds it very unpleasant.  That night, the frog who first saw Chihiro on the bridge goes into the room with the big tub and meets the silent spirit, who lures him closer with little gold nuggets. The spirit eats the frog, and thereafter uses his voice. He asks another employee for food and pays with more gold, which seems to grow in his hands as needed.  Hassen takes the river spirit's gift to the piggery, thinking it might turn her porky parents human, but she can't tell which pigs are her parents.  Back at the bathhouse, Linsusanegan shows Hassen a lump of gold from a new guest here who's loaded. The formerly silent spirit is eating everything the staff can bring him, growing larger and uglier, and dispensing gold. Hassen goes to look for Masterhaku.  A white dragon that Hassen recognizes as Masterhaku flies across the water, lands with a splash, and then seems to be attacked by white birds. Hassen opens her balcony doors so the dragon can fly into her room and closes the doors on the birds, which turn out to be made of paper.  The dragon is bleeding, but flies out and up to a higher window. Hassen. worried, goes after him one of the paper birds attaches itself to her back. She runs into the formerly silent spirit, who is glad to see her and offers her gold she declines and the spirit, disappointed again, drops the gold, which is eagerly snatched up by the other employees. The spirit eats the staffer who was conducting him through the halls and another employee. Hassen's rejection of his gifts turned him evil  Hassen finds herself climbing up the outside of the towering bathhouse. She notices that she has some of Masterhaku.s blood on her hand. The paper bird moves from her back to her hair Hassen turns to see the Yubabasuzannepleshette.ird flying back into her rooms at the top of the bathhouse. Hassen tries to get in through a window the paper bird slips through and unlocks it for her. She goes through a bathroom down a hall to a playroom, where the paper bird enables her to hear Yubabasuzannepleshette. who complains into the phone that the problem guest is a noface spirit who's eating people and that Masterhaku is bleeding all over the carpet. She callously tells someone to get him out of here  he'll be dead soon anyway. Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette comes to the playroom  and digs through the cushions to find the big baby. When Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette leaves, the baby, Bh, grabs Hassen and accuses her of being a germ from outside, come to make him sick.  He threatens to break her arm if she won't play with him, so she shows him Masterhaku.s blood on her hand  germs  and he lets go.  Hassen goes out to the main room, where Masterhaku lies bleeding in dragon form. Bh follows and again demands that Hassen play with him. The paper bird turns into a woman who looks just like Yubabasuzannepleshette. She turns the baby into a mouse when he mistakes her for his mother. She also turns the smaller Yubabasuzannepleshette.ird into a tiny, buglike bird and turns the three green heads into a facsimile of the big baby.  The woman explains she's Zenebasuzannepleshette Yubabasuzannepleshette again, Yubabasuzannepleshette.s twin sister. She says Masterhaku stole her magical golden seal, and she wants it back. The seal carries a curse that Zenebasuzannepleshette says will kill anyone who steals it. She says he's a thief  he not only took Zenebasuzannepleshette's seal, but plans to steal Yubabasuzannepleshette.s magic as well. Masterhaku snaps his tail and shreds the paper bird, which is lying on the rug this action slices Zenebasuzannepleshette in half from top to bottom. Oh ho, a paper cut, she remarks as she falls apart.  Masterhaku and Hassen fall through a hole in the hearth down a long shaft, almost landing among some evillooking spirits before Masterhaku. still in dragon form, revives enough to fly them to the boiler room. Once there, Masterhaku collapses he's still bleeding. Kamajiidavidogdenstiers.avidogdenstiers says it looks serious  he seems to be bleeding from the inside. Hassen makes him eat part of the river spirit's gift. He thrashes and struggles and spits up Zenebasuzannepleshette's gold seal and a black slug, which Hassen steps on and kills. Masterhaku changes back to human form, but he's still ill and unconscious. Hassen takes the seal.  Kamajiidavidogdenstiers.avidogdenstiers says Masterhaku. like Chihiro, appeared at the bathhouse out of nowhere and became palefaced and steelyeyed once Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette took him as her apprentice and got control of him. He thinks Zenebasuzannepleshette might be able to help if Hassen asks, though Zenebasuzannepleshette is very dangerous Hassen agrees. She says Masterhaku helped her, and now she wants to help him. I guess my parents will have to wait, she says a little glumly.  Linsusanegan comes to say that the silent spirit is a monster called Noface who has swallowed three people Hassen admits that she let him in, though Linsusanegan implies she'll get in big trouble for it. Kamajiidavidogdenstiers.avidogdenstiers gives Hassen train tickets  a rare treasure  to go to Zenebasuzannepleshette's house at Swamp Bottom. He says the train only runs one way now, though it used to go in both directions Hassen will have to walk back along the tracks. When Linsusanegan wonders what's going on with Hassen and Masterhaku. Kamajiidavidogdenstiers.avidogdenstiers says Something you wouldn't recognize. It's called love. Meanwhile, Noface is calling for Hassen. Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette tells Hassen to get every last bit of gold out of Noface, who has grown huge and bloated, before evicting him from the bathhouse. Before Hassen goes in to see Noface, Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette asks what's that dirty mouse doing here  she doesn't recognize the mouse as her baby.  Noface offers Hassen gold again, confiding, I'm not giving it to anybody else. She tells him she wants to leave because she has somewhere important to go, and that he should leave too because Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette doesn't want him in the bathhouse. She asks if he has somewhere to go. He doesn't he complains that he's lonely. Noface says he wants Hassen  meaning he wants to eat her. She makes him eat the remainder of the river spirit's gift instead, and it causes him to vomit uncontrollably . Hassen runs away and gets him to follow her down many flights of stairs.  At the foot of the stairs, Noface coughs up a couple of the people he ate , and says I'll get you for this, Hassen. He shrinks down to his original size. Linsusanegan turns up in a tublike boat to take Hassen to the train station. Hassen calls Noface to follow her to the train, saying he needs to get out of the bathhouse because it's making him crazy. She's sure he won't hurt them. Noface coughs up the frog, who swims away.  The train comes Hassen and Noface go aboard, Hassen presents their tickets to the conductor, and they ride to Swamp Bottom, where Zenebasuzannepleshette lives. Many of the passengers are transparent, and Noface has reverted to transparency as well. The mouse  and the bugbird are with them. The train travels over a landscape that's nearly all water.  In the boiler room, Masterhaku wakes up and wakes Kamajiidavidogdenstiers. who explains that Hassen has gone to Zenebasuzannepleshette's and that she broke Zenebasuzannepleshette's spell and cured him with the power of pure love.  In Yubabasuzannepleshette.s room, the faux big baby  is eating while Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette sits nearby with some of Noface's gold. Masterhaku comes in and says that something precious to her has been replaced when Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette looks closely, the baby turns back to the three heads and the gold turns to dirt.  Masterhaku says, the baby is with your sister. Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette asks what he wants to get the baby back. Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette must tear up Hassen.s contract and return her with both parents to the human world, Masterhaku replies. Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette agrees, but only if Hassen can pass a final test. If she fails, she's mine  Hassen and Noface get off the train and go looking for Zeniba. There's a dry path to walk on. The bugbird and the mouse take turns carrying each other but get tired, so Hassen lets them ride on her shoulder. A hopping lamppost leads them through the dark to Zeniba's house. The door opens and Zeniba brusquely invites them in. Zeniba still looks just like Yubabasuzannepleshette. She invites them to sit while she makes tea. Hassen gives back the golden seal and apologizes for Masterhaku. Zeniba says he sliced me in two, you know, and I'm still angry. Hassen thinks she's talking about the slug, which she admits to having squashed, but Zeniba says the slug was how Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette controlled Masterhaku. Only love could have broken Zeniba's spell.  Zeniba says the spell on the mouse and the bugbird wore off long ago and they can change back whenever they want. They're busy with a spinning wheel, however, and show no interest in changing.  Zeniba says Hassen must help her parents on her own to do that, she must remember where she first met Masterhaku. She asks Hassen to call her Granny.  Noface spins and the mouse and bugbird knit a hairtie for Hassen Zeniba says it will protect her because her friends made it for her.  The door rattles and Zeniba tells Hassen to let in another guest it's Masterhaku in dragon form. Zeniba says she'll forgive Masterhaku if he takes care of Hassen. Zeniba asks Noface to stay with her  I need a good helper  and Noface agrees. Hassen tells Granny her real name, climbs on Masterhaku.s back with the mouse and bugbird, and they fly off. As they fly, she remembers dropping her shoe in a river when she was very small, going in after it and fearing she would drown, but the river carried her to shore. It was the Kohaku River  Masterhaku is the Kohaku River spirit, and can't find his way home because the river has been filled in. Masterhaku changes from dragon to human, and for a while they enjoy free fall.  Hassen and Masterhaku fly in human form, landing at the bathhouse bridge. The mouse turns back to a baby, who speaks up on Hassen.s behalf. Yubabasuzannepleshette.uzannepleshette wants to give Hassen the final test, though the baby objects, but Hassen agrees that a deal's a deal.  The test Hassen must pick out her parents from a crowd of pigs. You get one try if you get it right you can all go home. Hassen says none of the pigs are her parents she passes the test and her contract evaporates out of Yubabasuzannepleshette.s hand. Saying thanks for everything, Granny , Hassen runs off with Masterhaku. who tells her her parents are on the other side of the river. She has to cross the riverbed and not look back until she's through the tunnel. He'll go back to Yubabasuzannepleshette. though no longer in her thrall because he knows his name again. He promises that he and Hassen will meet again. Hassen  now Chihiro  hears her parents calling and rejoins them near the tunnel mouth they're fine and don't remember any of what happened. They scold her mildly for running off.  When they get back to their car, it's dusty and covered with leaves, as though it had been there for a long time. As they drive away, Dad says a new home and new school  it is a bit scary. Chihiro, much matured since her last car ride, replies, I think I can handle it.