Note Italicized paragraphs denote scenes added for the film's 1997 special edition and updated for its DVD release.  An opening title card reads  'A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away.  'It is a period of civil war. Rebel spaceships, striking from a hidden base, have won their first victory against the evil Galactic Empire. During the battle, Rebel spies managed to steal secret plans to the Empire's ultimate weapon, the DeathStar, an armored space station with enough power to destroy an entire planet. Pursued by the Empire's sinister agents, Princess Leiacarriefisher.arriefisher races home aboard her starship, custodian of the stolen plans that can save her people and restore freedom to the galaxy.'  Following the opening crawl, the frame moves down in the star field and we see a pitched battle between two starships in orbit around the desert planet of Tatooine. A small Rebel blockade runner, the  Tantive IV, is being pursued by a mammoth Imperial star destroyer, the  Devastator. Inside, protocol droid C3PO Anthonydaniels and utility droid R2D2 Kennybaker are tossed about as their ship endures a barrage of laser bolts, and 3PO concludes that escaping capture will be impossible. The Rebel ship is so heavily damaged that its main power reactor must be shut down. It is caught in the Imperial destroyer's tractor beam, pulled into the hold of the larger ship, and boarded by stormtroopers from the Empire's 501st Legion.  A huge firefight ensues in the corridors of the Rebel ship, with many Rebel soldiers being lost in the battle. When the smoke clears, Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse David Prowse voice  Jamesearljones, a man dressed in a black cape, black armor, and a black helmet that obscures all his features, briefly surveys the damage before interrogating the ship's captain, who claims that the ship is on a diplomatic mission to the planet Alderaan. Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse perceives that he is lying, noting that a consular ship would have an ambassador on board.  Upon learning that the plans were not downloaded into the ship's computer, Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse strangles the captain. He then tells the troops to search the entire ship and to bring all the passengers to him  alive.  C3PO and R2D2 manage to escape damage from the firefight. R2D2 meets up with Princess Leiacarriefisher. who loads him with the stolen plans, and records a holographic message for the small droid to take to the planet's surface. R2D2 and C3PO get away from the ship aboard an escape pod to go to the planet below Imperial troops choose not to destroy the pod, as their scans detect no living organism on board, and presume it ejected due to a malfunction. Moments later the princess is stunned by Imperial troops and taken to Darthvaderdavidprowse. He tells her that the Rebels have stolen some secret Imperial plans and transmitted them to her ship. She feigns ignorance and protests to Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse that she is a member of the Imperial Senate on a diplomatic mission to the planet Alderaan, but Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse doesn't believe her and orders her taken away. Darthvaderdavidprowse.s adjutant aide, Commander Jirallampert, insists that holding her captive is dangerous news of her captivity would generate sympathy for the rebellion against the Empire. Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse instructs Jir to deceive the Senate and permanently erase any trace of Leiacarriefisher.s whereabouts by faking her accidental death. Upon being notified by another officer that an empty escape pod was jettisoned during the firefight, he concludes that the Princess hid the stolen plans in the pod.  C3PO and R2D2 land on the desert planet R2D2 mentions a mission to deliver some plans, but C3PO is more concerned with staying in one piece long enough to find civilization. The two split up, and both are eventually captured by a group of diminutive scavengers called Jawas. The Jawas are junk traders, and R2D2 and C3PO are their newest assets. Meanwhile, a unit of Imperial Sandtroopers find the crashed pod, and discover droid parts, and tracks leading away from the crash site.  The Jawas travel to the Great Chott Salt Flat settlement to sell droids and equipment to local homesteaders, eventually arriving at the homestead of Owenlarsphilbrown, a moisture farmer. The farmer purchases C3PO for his translation skills, as he is fluent in six million forms of communication, but initially decides to buy a cheaper utility droid, R5D4, which breaks down almost immediately after purchase. Eager to deflect accusations of selling shoddy merchandise, the Jawas offer R2 as a consolation. Uncleowen accepts and tells his young nephew, Lukeskywalkermarkhamill, to clean them up and put them to work. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill had plans to meet some friends in the nearby town of Anchorhead, but his plans are put aside for work. During the cleanup, Lukeskywalkermarkhamill stumbles across a short clip of the message stored in R2 by Princess Leiacarriefisher. The message is for someone named 'ObiWan Benkenobi., and is a desperate plea for help. R2 insists that the message is simply a malfunction , but Lukeskywalkermarkhamill insists on hearing the complete message, intrigued by Leiacarriefisher.s beauty. R2 then states that if Lukeskywalkermarkhamill removes his restraining bolt, he might be able to play the rest of the message. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill removes the bolt, but R2 doesn't play the message and claims not to know what Lukeskywalkermarkhamill is talking about. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill is called away for dinner  and asks C3PO to finish cleaning R2.  During dinner, Lukeskywalkermarkhamill tells his aunt and uncle that the droids may belong to someone called Obiwankenobi. This news greatly disturbs Uncleowen, but he won't say why. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill asks if ObiWan is possibly related to a local hermit named Benkenobi who lives several miles away in the Dune Sea area, a vast terrain of sand and rocky canyons. Uncleowen claims that Benkenobi is just a crazy old man, and that ObiWan is dead Uncleowen makes a comment which seems to indicate that Obiwankenobi knew Lukeskywalkermarkhamill's longdeceased father, Anakin, but when Lukeskywalkermarkhamill presses Uncleowen for details, his uncle quickly changes the subject and instructs Lukeskywalkermarkhamill to erase the droids' memories the next morning. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill  who hopes to leave home for training at a nearby Imperial Military Academy to become a space pilot  leaves the room angrily to return to cleaning the droids. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill's Aunt Auntberushelaghfraser.helaghfraser tells Uncleowen that Lukeskywalkermarkhamill is too much like his father to remain, but Uncleowen holds out hope that Lukeskywalkermarkhamill's desire for adventure will subside  and expresses a fear that Lukeskywalkermarkhamill is too much like his father. suggesting that Uncleowen may know something of Anakin's terrible past.  After dinner, Lukeskywalkermarkhamill discovers that R2D2 has escaped to find Obiwankenobi. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill tells 3PO that it's too late to look for R2 because of the dangerous Sand People  in the area, and that they will set out first thing in the morning to go look for him .  The following morning, Lukeskywalkermarkhamill and 3PO set out in Lukeskywalkermarkhamill's landspeeder to find R2. They locate him on the scanner and catch up with him. As soon as they find him, R2 informs them that his own scanner is picking up several creatures closing in on them. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill fears the Sand People have found them, and confirms it using a set of minoculars. One ambushes them, hitting Lukeskywalkermarkhamill over the head and knocking him unconscious. C3PO goes tumbling down the side of a sand dune. R2 runs and hides.  After stealing some parts off of Lukeskywalkermarkhamill's speeder, the Sand People are frightened away by the sound of a vicious beast. We see that the sound is coming from a mysterious hooded figure approaching. The figure checks on Lukeskywalkermarkhamill and takes his hood off to reveal his features. He is an old, bearded man, who gently touches Lukeskywalkermarkhamill's forehead. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill quickly comes to and recognizes the man as Benkenobialecguinness. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill tells the man that his droid claims to belong to an Obiwankenobi. This knowledge startles the old man, who reveals  that  he is Obiwankenobi but that he hasn't gone by that name in many years. After rescuing C3PO, they go to ObiWan's home to discuss the matter.  At ObiWan's home, Lukeskywalkermarkhamill learns that ObiWan knew Anakin and that they were both Jediknights of the Old Republic. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill had been told by his uncle that his father was a navigator on a spice freighter Uncleowen had been trying to protect Lukeskywalkermarkhamill from the truth about his father, or perhaps simply trying to keep him safe. . ObiWan then produces Anakin's lightsaber, an energy sword which was the chosen weapon of the Jediknights he seems to have kept it safe for some time. He gives the weapon to Lukeskywalkermarkhamill, saying that Anakin wanted him to have it when he was old enough, but Uncleowen would have none of it. ObiWan explains that a Jediknight receives his power from the Force, an energy field that is created by all living beings that surrounds us, penetrates us, and binds the galaxy together. But there is also a Dark Side to the Force, which draws power from negative emotions and baser impulses. A young Jediknight named Darthvaderdavidprowse. who was once a pupil of ObiWan, was seduced by this Dark Side. Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse betrayed and murdered Anakin, then became the Dark Lord of the Sith, the most feared enforcer of the Emperor. In this capacity, he proceeded to hunt down his former comrades, and the Jediknight Order is now all but extinct.  At this point ObiWan has R2 play Princess Leiacarriefisher.s complete message. The princess reminds ObiWan of his past service to her father in the Clone Wars, and conveys his plea to assist in the Rebellion against the Empire. She senses that her mission to bring ObiWan to Alderaan has failed, and tells ObiWan that she has embedded information crucial to the rebellion in R2's memory banks. She asks ObiWan to deliver the droid to her father on Alderaan so that the information can be retrieved, and repeats her plea that he is now her only hope.  ObiWan cannot hope to undertake such a mission alone due to his advanced age, so he tells Lukeskywalkermarkhamill that he should learn the ways of the Force and accompany him to Alderaan. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill is adamant that he can't go, and that he must stay on Tatooine and help his uncle. ObiWan counters that the Rebellion needs Lukeskywalkermarkhamill's help, and that the young woman in the message needs Lukeskywalkermarkhamill's help . They decide to go to the city of Anchorhead so that ObiWan can book a transport to Mos Eisely space port.  Meanwhile, the  Devastator has docked at the Death Star, a gargantuan space station resembling a small moon. Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse rendezvous with Grand Moff Wilhuff Tarkin Petercushing, commander of the station and governor of the Imperial Outland Regions, and they enter a conference room where they meet the station's Command Triumvirate Admiral Conanmottirichardleparmentier, High General Cassiotaggedonhenderson, and Chief Officer Mordraminbastleslieschofield. As the Triumvirs argue about the best way to exploit their newest technological terror, Tarkin tells them that the Emperor has decided to dissolve the Imperial Senate and use the Death Star to intimidate all of the Empire's star systems into submission, suggesting that fear of force is preferable to its actual use. Motti is extremely confident in the new space station, calling it 'the ultimate power in the universe'. However, Tagge is adamant that the Death Star is not invincible, and that the Rebels will figure this out if they have a chance to read its schematics. Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse tells them that the ability to destroy a planet is insignificant next to the power of the Force. Motti callously mocks Darthvaderdavidprowse.s Jediknight heritage, noting that the Force has not helped him recover the stolen schematics or pinpoint the Rebellion's headquarters. Angered, Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse uses the Force to strangle Motti, until Tarkin orders him to stand down. The commanders decide to focus on interrogating Leiacarriefisher.arriefisher until she gives up the location of the Rebel Headquarters. They will then use the Death Star to destroy it, killing two birds with one stone.  As Lukeskywalkermarkhamill and his companions travel to Anchorhead, they find the Jawa sandcrawler, completely destroyed with all the Jawas slaughtered although they appear to be victims of the Sand People, ObiWan recognizes signs which indicate an attack by Imperial stormtroopers. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill realizes that the only reason Imperial troops would kill Jawas is because they are looking for the droids which escaped the battle, and he races home, over ObiWan's objections that he is likely endangering his own life, hoping to warn Uncleowen and Auntberushelaghfraser.  However, Lukeskywalkermarkhamill is too late. The Imperials have apparently come and gone, burned the homestead, and killed his aunt and uncle. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill returns to ObiWan , saying that with no reason to remain, he wants to go with him to Alderaan. More importantly, he declares his wish to learn the ways of the Force and become a Jediknight like his father once was.  Lukeskywalkermarkhamill and ObiWan travel to the large city of Mos Eisley, a large spaceport  with the two droids to find transport to Alderaan. Upon entering the spaceport they are approached by Imperial troops at a roadblock asking questions about the two droids they have with them. ObiWan appears to induce a trancelike state in the lead guard, persuading him that these are not the droids they are looking for. When Lukeskywalkermarkhamill is puzzled by the ease of their passage, ObiWan explains that the Force can have a strong influence on the weakminded.  At the Mos Eisley Cantina, Lukeskywalkermarkhamill gets into a scuffle with two criminals who threaten to kill him. When one of the creatures pulls a gun on Benkenobi. the old Jediknight defends himself with his lightsaber  slashing off the creature's gun arm before it can shoot. Moments later they meet smuggler Hansoloharrisonford, captain of the  Millennium Falcon, and his first mate, Chewbaccapetermayhew, a 7foottall, 200yearold Wookiee. Upon learning that ObiWan and Lukeskywalkermarkhamill are trying to avoid Imperial capture, Captain Solo gives his price as 10,000 credits for the trip. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill balks at that price, stating that they could almost buy their own ship for that, but Hansoloharrisonford is dubious that they could fly it themselves. ObiWan tells Solo that they will pay him 2,000 credits now and 15,000 more once they reach Alderaan. Hansoloharrisonford agrees.  After Lukeskywalkermarkhamill and ObiWan leave, Hansoloharrisonford tells Chewbacca that 17,000 credits could really save his neck. As Chewbacca leaves to make preflight preparations, Hansoloharrisonford hangs back to take care of their bar tab, and is stopped by Greedomariadearagon and  Paulblake, a bounty hunter working for feared crimelord Jabba Desilijic Tiure. Jabba had hired Hansoloharrisonford to transport a shipment of glitterstim spice , but Hansoloharrisonford had to dump the shipment due to an unexpected Imperial boarding. As Greedomariadearagon points a blaster pistol at Solo and forces him toward a secluded section of the bar, Hansoloharrisonford insists that he has the 8,000 credits he needs to cover the loss. Greedomariadearagon suggests that Solo pay him instead of Jabba , forcing Hansoloharrisonford to admit that he doesn't actually have the money yet. Realizing that Greedomariadearagon will either turn him over to Jabba or kill him for the bounty that Jabba has placed on him, Solo quietly removes his heavy pistol under the table, and when Greedomariadearagon admits that he would just as soon see him dead as alive, Solo preemptively fires in selfdefense and kills him. On his way out, Hansoloharrisonford throws the bartender a few coins, apologizing for the mess he left.   At the docking bay, Hansoloharrisonford is confronted by Jabba the Hutt and several other associates. Jabba expresses frustration over Greedomariadearagon's death, and reminds Hansoloharrisonford of the nature of their business he cannot make any exceptions to those who fail or cross him, lest he appear weak. Hansoloharrisonford insists that he will soon have enough money to pay off his debt, with interest, he just needs more time. Jabba reluctantly agrees, but warns Hansoloharrisonford that this is his last chance.  Lukeskywalkermarkhamill sells his speeder to raise money for their initial payment to Captain Solo. They head to the docking bay where the  Millennium Falcon is being prepared for flight. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill is somewhat perturbed to discover that the  Falcon is a 60yearold, rundown YT1300 freighter, but Hansoloharrisonford assures him that he has made extensive modifications to ensure that she can run rings around any modern capital ship. Meanwhile, Imperial troops believe they are hot on the trail of the two droids when a local informant tells them the whereabouts of the fugitives after recognizing Lukeskywalkermarkhamill and ObiWan.  No sooner do Lukeskywalkermarkhamill, ObiWan and the droids board the  Millennium Falcon than the Imperial troops come running into the docking bay, hoping to arrest Lukeskywalkermarkhamill and ObiWan and capture the droids. The troops fire at Solo and the  Falcon, but the ship manages to escape. Once they clear the planet, they are immediately pursued by two huge Imperial star destroyers. Solo remarks that his passengers must be of particular interest to the Empire. They jump to light speed, escaping the Imperial ships.  Princess Leiacarriefisher.arriefisher has been tortured and undergone a mind probe in order for the Imperials to extract the location of the Rebels' home base. They have found nothing. Tarkin, Darthvaderdavidprowse. and Motti shift tactics, threatening to destroy the Princess's home planet of Alderaan if she won't reveal the Rebels' location. She reluctantly tells them that the Rebel base is on the planet Dantooine. Tarkin then orders his officers to proceed with Alderaan's destruction, noting that Dantooine is too remote to make an effective demonstration of the Death Star's power. Alderaan is destroyed by a single blast from the Death Star's enormously powerful laser blaster while Leiacarriefisher.arriefisher is forced to watch.  On board the  Millennium Falcon, ObiWan is training Lukeskywalkermarkhamill in the ways of the Force when he is greatly disturbed by a tremor in the Force. He feels that millions of people have died in an instant amidst great suffering, though he doesn't know how. He decides to meditate on this further as Lukeskywalkermarkhamill continues an exercise in allowing the Force to guide his reflexes. Hansoloharrisonford is not impressed, and explains that he does not believe in the Force. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill, however, manages to use his lightsaber to deflect four laser bolts in a row from a remote droid  all while wearing a helmet which covers his eyes.  Back on the Death Star, Tarkin and Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse receive a report that there once was indeed a Rebel base on Dantooine but it has long since been abandoned. Outraged at Leiacarriefisher.s successful trickery, Tarkin orders her scheduled for execution  Lukeskywalkermarkhamill realizes that he is learning how to sense the Force. One of the  Falcon's signals informs them that they are approaching Alderaan, but upon exiting light speed, they find the  Millennium Falcon is in an asteroid field instead of Alderaan's orbit. Hansoloharrisonford confirms that they are in the right location but that the planet is missing ObiWan quietly states that the planet has been destroyed by the Empire, but Solo laughingly insists that all the Empire's ships combined wouldn't have enough firepower to destroy a planet. Moments later they are overflown by an Imperial Twin Ion Engine  snubfighter. ObiWan concludes it is too small for long range flight, so there must be an Imperial base nearby. As they chase after the fighter to keep it from notifying the Empire of their location, they see the fighter heading toward a small moon  the Death Star. They are caught in the Death Star's tractor beam and, helpless to resist, are pulled aboard the station into a docking bay. ObiWan tells them that neither fighting or surrender are viable choices, but a third option is available to them.  Imperial troops board the  Falcon, but its crew are hiding in smuggling compartments below the floor. Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse orders scanning equipment to be brought aboard to look for life signs. While standing near the  Falcon, he senses a presence he has not felt for some time. Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse leaves the hangar, pursued by the frustrating sense he is overlooking something of great importance.  When two stormtroopers go aboard the  Falcon to set up their scanning equipment, Lukeskywalkermarkhamill and Solo shoot them both and steal their armor uniforms. The helmets conceal their identity and allow them to infiltrate a troop command center outside the docking port. Inside the command center, R2 plugs into the station computer system and discovers the location of the tractor beam generator. ObiWan sets out to shut down the generator so that the ship can leave. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill wants to accompany him, but ObiWan orders Lukeskywalkermarkhamill to stay, noting that Lukeskywalkermarkhamill's destiny now splits paths from his own. Perhaps sensing that this is the last time he will see Lukeskywalkermarkhamill in this reality, he tells Lukeskywalkermarkhamill, The Force will be with you. always.  After ObiWan leaves, R2 discovers that the princess is being held prisoner on board the station. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill suddenly takes the initiative, sparing no effort to convince Solo and Chewbacca to assist him in what is surely going to be a very risky rescue. Hansoloharrisonford, initially scared for his own neck, eventually agrees, but only after Lukeskywalkermarkhamill suggests that a great monetary reward would surely follow her rescue. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill and Hansoloharrisonford take Chewbacca captive and assume their trooper identities in order to infiltrate the prison block. In the prison block, the officer in command becomes suspicious of their arrival since he was not notified. As a result, Lukeskywalkermarkhamill and Hansoloharrisonford's escorted prisoner escapes and a firefight erupts between the Imperials and Lukeskywalkermarkhamill, Hansoloharrisonford, and Chewbacca. They manage to take out all the Imperials, but set off an alarm in the process. A squad of troops are sent to investigate. Hansoloharrisonford and Lukeskywalkermarkhamill know they have only moments to find the princess's cell and escape.  They find the princess, but the arriving troops cut off the only escape route. Leiacarriefisher.arriefisher shoots a hole in a garbage chute and tells everyone to dive in. They escape the Imperials, only to find themselves trapped in a large garbage compactor. To make matters worse, the compactor also houses a large, serpentlike creature  the dianoga  which yanks Lukeskywalkermarkhamill under the murky, stagnant water in the compactor, almost drowning him. The creature inexplicably lets Lukeskywalkermarkhamill go, but just as they catch their breath, the compactor activates and the walls begin to move in, threatening to crush Hansoloharrisonford, Lukeskywalkermarkhamill, Leiacarriefisher. and Chewbacca. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill calls 3PO on the communicator and orders him to have R2 shut down all garbage compactors in the detention level. R2 complies just in time to save them.  Meanwhile, Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse informs Tarkin that he senses through the Force that Benkenobi is aboard the station. Tarkin is doubtful, but the discussion is soon interrupted by an emergency report  Princess Leiacarriefisher.arriefisher has escaped Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse tells a shocked and bewildered Tarkin the true explanation for Leiacarriefisher.s impossible escape  ObiWan  is here. The Force is with him. Sensing that ObiWan wishes a final showdown, Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse sets off to find him. Unbeknownst to anyone, Benkenobi has deactivated the tractor beam generator.  After their escape from the compactor, Lukeskywalkermarkhamill and Hansoloharrisonford dispose of their stormtrooper armor, but keep the troopers' utility belts and weapons. On their way back to the ship they're cut off by more troops. They are split up, with Hansoloharrisonford and Chewbacca fighting together and Lukeskywalkermarkhamill and Leiacarriefisher.arriefisher running on their own.  After being cornered between a great air shaft and a group of troopers, Lukeskywalkermarkhamill shoots a blast door's controls with his blaster, locking the troops on the other side of the door. Unfortunately, the blast also destroys the controls that extend the bridge across the air shaft. After a gunfight with stormtroopers on the other side of the shaft, Lukeskywalkermarkhamill uses a cable and grappling hook from his freshly confiscated Imperial utility belt to swing himself and Leiacarriefisher.arriefisher safely across the gorge.  ObiWan, on his way back to the  Falcon, encounters Darthvaderdavidprowse. They exchange barbed comments, with Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse boasting to his former master that he is now so much more experienced and powerful than he was the last time they met, that the tables have now turned, with Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse the senior of the two, and ObiWan replying that Darthvaderdavidprowse.s turn to evil has made him oblivious to the Force's true power. A ferocious lightsaber duel ensues.  Lukeskywalkermarkhamill, Leiacarriefisher. Hansoloharrisonford and Chewbacca meet at the entrance to the docking bay. The lightsaber duel on the other side of the bay distracts the troops guarding the ship, allowing the four of them, along with R2 and 3PO, to sneak across to board the  Falcon. As Benkenobi and Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse continue dueling, Benkenobi informs Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse that if Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse strikes him down, he shall become even more powerful, beyond what Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse could possibly imagine. Benkenobi. seeing that the four heroes and two droids are safely boarding the  Falcon, takes one last look from his comrade's son to the man who betrayed him, and smilingly withdraws his saber, allowing Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse to slice through him. His body instantly disappears. Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse is stunned and confused by this, as he determines that no one is in Benkenobi.s nowempty cloak on the floor. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill, appalled by the sight of his mentor being struck down by Darthvaderdavidprowse. lets out a shout of horror, alerting all of the troops to their presence. Another firefight immediately erupts, and they barely make it aboard the ship with their lives, but Lukeskywalkermarkhamill stays behind, attempting to shoot every Imperial soldier in the hangar, despite his friends urging him to join them on the ship so they can escape. Finally, he relents, hearing ObiWan's voice telling him to run, as Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse catches a glimpse of him through a rapidly closing set of blast doors. When the  Falcon flies out of the docking bay, the Imperials are unable to activate the tractor beam, thanks to Benkenobi.  Having blasted their way out of the station's defense range, they are confronted by four Imperial TIE fighters. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill and Hansoloharrisonford man two large gun turrets on the top and bottom of the  Falcon and manage to destroy all four ships. Hansoloharrisonford starts to boast to Leiacarriefisher.arriefisher about his amazing abilities during her rescue. She insists that the Empire let them escape in order to track them to the Rebel base. Hansoloharrisonford is doubtful of that as she explains to Hansoloharrisonford that R2 is carrying the technical readouts to the Death Star. She has high hopes that when the data is analyzed, a weakness can be found in the station.  Back aboard the station, Leiacarriefisher.s fears are confirmed as Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse and Tarkin discuss their plan to track the Falcon to the hidden Rebel base. The  Falcon makes it to the base, located on the fourth moon of the gas giant Yavin Prime. After R2's data is analyzed, it is determined that the Death Star does indeed have a weakness that can be exploited a small exhaust port not protected by any shielding, through which a wellplaced proton torpedo could reach the main reactor and destroy the station. The port is situated in a narrow trench protected by General ARea Defense Integration Antispacecraft Network  turbolasers. The Rebel commander, General Dodonnaalexmccrindle, theorizes that since the GARDIAN array is designed to repel large scale assaults from capital ships, it could easily be outmaneuvered by smaller and faster snubfighters. A plan is devised, where a squadron of YWing assault bombers Angusmacinnes, will skim the trench. A second squadron Drewehenley comprised of the faster, more maneuverable XWing snubfighters, will attempt to draw enemy fire away from the bombers. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill will be flying one of the XWings, under the callsign Red Five. Fellow pilot Wedge Antilles Denislawson is skeptical about succeeding, but Lukeskywalkermarkhamill is confident that the task can be accomplished, noting that he used to shoot at animal targets on Tatooine which were not much bigger than two meters.  The Rebels set out to attack the Death Star just as the station enters the Yavin system. The Death Star will have to orbit to Yavin's far side in order to have a shot at the moon on which the base is located. The approximately 30 Rebel fighters have less than 30 minutes to fly to the station and destroy it.   As Lukeskywalkermarkhamill heads to the hanger, he is reunited with Biggsdarklightergarrickhagon, who used to fly with Lukeskywalkermarkhamill on Tatooine. Biggsdarklightergarrickhagon congratulates Lukeskywalkermarkhamill for finally making it off Tatooine, and tells that the coming battle will be just like old times.  Having apparently collected the balance of his 17,000 credits payment for delivering the plans to the Rebellion , Hansoloharrisonford refuses to join the fight, stating that his reward will be useless if he is killed, and that he would rather take his money and go pay off his debts. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill is disappointed, but boards his fighter and takes off, right after R2 is loaded into the rear of the fighter for technical assistance. Upon departure, he hears what sounds like ObiWan's voice speaking to him, saying The Force will be with you. He quickly dismisses it.  Both squadrons approach the Death Star briefly marveling at its size. Red Squadron initiates a strafing run on the station's surface to divert attention away from the bombers. Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse is informed that the GARDIAN turbolasers are having trouble targeting the small rebel ships, so he orders Black Squadron, an elite TIE fighter squadron, to engage the XWings individually. In short order, six TIE fighters join the battle, and Red Squadron scrambles to keep them away from the trenches. However, as Dutch and his wingmen commence their trench run, Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse takes notice, and recruits two Black Squadron pilots, Mauler and Backstabber, to escort him as he boards a TIE Advanced x1 fighter to engage the bombers. Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse easily outmaneuvers the YWings, methodically dispatching them one by one. Dutch panics and aborts his run, before he himself is destroyed.  With Gold Squadron effectively wiped out, Garven orders the surviving XWing pilots to start a second attack run down the trench. As they approach the exhaust port, Garven turns on his targeting computer as two other ships cover his tail from enemy fire. The escorting ships are destroyed, but they buy enough time for Garven to take a shot at the exhaust port. His shot misses. Moments later he loses an engine to Darthvaderdavidprowse.s gunnery and his fighter spirals into the surface of the station.  Now nominally in charge of Red Squadron, Lukeskywalkermarkhamill decides that it is now his responsibility to try to destroy the port. R2 is preoccupied trying to keep the ship running, despite all of the damage they are sustaining. With Biggsdarklightergarrickhagon and Wedge flying his wing, they start down the trench. Moments later, they are pursued by Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse and his wingmen, who partially disable Wedge's ship. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill tells Wedge to head home, seeing that he can't be of any help in a crippled ship. Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse allows Wedge to withdraw, ordering his men to continue to pursue the two ships in the trench. Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse fires again, hitting Biggsdarklightergarrickhagon' ship and destroying it. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill is grieved by the loss of his friend, but presses on.  As Lukeskywalkermarkhamill gets closer to his target, he hears the voice of ObiWan, repeatedly telling him to use the Force and rely on his instincts more than the technology in his ship. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill switches off his targeting computer and continues flying down the trench. When asked by Mission Control why he switched off the computer, Lukeskywalkermarkhamill responds that nothing is wrong.  Meanwhile, the Death Star has completed its run around Yavin and is now cleared to fire on the Rebel moon. The countdown for the firing sequence begins. Bast tells Tarkin that he has analyzed the attack, and concludes there is a real threat to the station. Tarkin scoffs at evacuation and insists the Empire will prevail. He remains on the station while some of the Imperial officers and troops evacuate as a precaution.  As Lukeskywalkermarkhamill draws on the power of the Force to help him hit his target, Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse senses the strength of the Force in his prey. He takes a shot, which misses the ship but hits R2D2. Just as he locks on to Lukeskywalkermarkhamill's ship to finish him off, Backstabber's ship explodes unexpectedly. Out of nowhere appears the  Millennium Falcon, which has just destroyed the Imperial fighter  diving vertically down towards Darthvaderdavidprowse.avidprowse and the remaining wingman. This sudden turn of events distracts Mauler just long enough for him to lose control of his ship and crash into Darthvaderdavidprowse.s. Mauler's ship ricochets into the trench wall, destroying it, and sends Darthvaderdavidprowse.s ship spinning out of control, up and away from the Death Star.  Hansoloharrisonford informs Lukeskywalkermarkhamill that he is all clear to fire. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill, having drawn upon the power of the Force, releases his proton torpedoes, which enter the exhaust port perfectly on targe. Lukeskywalkermarkhamill, the  Falcon and a few other fighters race away from the Death Star, just as the Death Star prepares to fire on the moon. Only seconds before the station fires, it explodes into a huge fireball, sending millions of fragments into space. Tarkin, Motti, Tagge, and most of the senior Imperial staff are killed.  Darthvaderdavidprowse. having been thrown into space during his collision with the wingman, is now apparently the only one to have escaped the station's destruction. He eventually manages to regain control of his wildly gyrating fighter, and when he finally stabilizes, he flies off to meet the Imperial Fleet as the Rebels head home to their base. Upon reaching the base, Lukeskywalkermarkhamill is thrilled to see that Hansoloharrisonford returned to help him out. Leiacarriefisher.arriefisher is thrilled to see both of her friends alive. And everyone is ecstatic that the Death Star has been destroyed. Their celebration is briefly interrupted as R2 is pulled from Lukeskywalkermarkhamill's ship. He is heavily damaged from Darthvaderdavidprowse.s gunfire, and does not respond to C3PO. The golden robot is terribly concerned, but Lukeskywalkermarkhamill and two mechanics assure him that R2 is repairable and will be fine.  Later, an awards ceremony is held in a huge hall. Hundreds of Rebel soldiers, officers, and pilots are present. A door at the rear of the hall opens to reveal Lukeskywalkermarkhamill, Hansoloharrisonford, and Chewbacca. They walk down the aisle to where Leiacarriefisher.arriefisher awaits, along with several Rebel leaders and dignitaries.  Also present are a freshly polished C3PO and a freshly overhauled and looking betterthannew R2D2. Upon reaching the front of the great hall, Lukeskywalkermarkhamill and Hansoloharrisonford are awarded medals for bravery by a smiling Princess Leiacarriefisher. The hall erupts into thunderous applause.