The opening crawl reveals that Han Solo's friends are engaged in a mission to rescue the smuggler from Jabba the Hutt and that the Galactic Empire is building a new armored space station which is even larger and more powerful than the first Death Star.  Near the forest moon of Endor the new Death Star is being constructed in orbit, and a command star destroyer arrives and launches a shuttle with a fighter escort  a shuttle bearing the Dark Lord of the Sith. Fearing his arrival, the commander of the new Death Star informs Darthvader David Prowse, voice  Jamesearljones that the station will be operational on schedule, but when Darthvader challenges this optimistic appraisal of the situation, the commander admits that he needs more men to accelerate construction. Darthvader, however, informs the commander that the Emperor Ianmcdiarmid will be arriving soon, and that he is most displeased with the commander's progress. Shaken, the commander commits to redoubling construction efforts. Darthvader. pleased, remarks, the Emperor is not as forgiving as I am.  Jedi Knight Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill Mark Hamill, Chewbaccapetermayhew, Landocalrissianbillydeewilliams Billy Dee Williams, Princess Leiaorganacarriefisher.rganacarriefisher, C3PO Anthonydaniels, and R2D2 Kennybaker return to Tatooine to rescue Han Solo Star Wars Episode V  The Empire Strikes Back from the gangster Jabba the Hutt Larryward. Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill sends C3PO and R2D2 to Jabba's desert palace to deliver a message In a hologram projected by R2, Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill offers to bargain with Jabba for Solo himself  if Jabba does not, he will be destroyed. Jabba laughs at the message and refuses to give up his favorite decoration Han, frozen in carbonite, hangs on a wall in Jabba's court. The two droids are sent to EV9D9's workshop where C3P0 is given the job of Jabba's translator and R2 will be a drinkserver on Jabba's sail barge.  Disguised as a bounty hunter named Boushh, Leiaorganacarriefisher.rganacarriefisher arrives in Jabba's court with Chewbacca in cuffs. She offers him to Jabba for a sizable bounty. After Leiaorganacarriefisher.rganacarriefisher dickers with Jabba over the amount and threatens him with a small thermal detonator, Jabba happily agrees to pay, impressed with the bounty hunter's nerve, and Chewbacca is imprisoned.  That night, Leiaorganacarriefisher.rganacarriefisher sneaks into Jabba's court and frees Han from the carbonite. However, she and Solo are both captured by Jabba. Solo is imprisoned with Chewbacca and Jabba keeps Leiaorganacarriefisher.rganacarriefisher on display in a metal bikini and chains. Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill arrives with a final ultimatum to release Solo. Jabba again refuses and drops Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill through a trap door into a pit below his throne that houses the rancor, a fearsome beast that Jabba keeps for executions. As Leiaorganacarriefisher.rganacarriefisher watches in horror, she sees Landocalrissianbillydeewilliams disguised as a palace guard. After a brief battle, Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill defeats the rancor, enraging Jabba, who declares that Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill. Solo and Chewbacca will be slowly consumed by the sarlacc  a huge, sharktoothed, tentacled maw at the bottom of the Great Pit of Carkoon.  The group is taken to the pit on Jabba's sail barge fleet and prepared for execution Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill is the first, pushed out onto a thin plank over the pit. Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill gives R2 a short salute and a small object, Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill.s new lightsaber, is launched into his hand. A battle erupts, with Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill steadily taking the fight to Jabba's men. During the battle, Leiaorganacarriefisher.rganacarriefisher strangles Jabba with the chain around her neck and with R2D2's help escapes from her bonds. Solo accidentally knocks Bobafettjeremybulloch into the sarlacc pit. Landocalrissianbillydeewilliams is also thrown off one of the skiffs, hanging by a few cables until he's rescued from the sarlacc itself by Han and Chewbacca. Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill. having fought his way onto Jabba's sail barge, has the escaping Leiaorganacarriefisher.rganacarriefisher aim the deck cannon at the vehicle and sets it on automatic fire the sail barge soon blows apart. Our heroes manage to escape before it explodes, retrieve R2 and C3PO and zip off into the desert. Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill flies off Tatooine in his XWing fighter and the rest of the band fly away in the Millennium Falcon to rendezvous with the Rebel fleet near Sullust.  A massive fleet of fighters completely surrounds the boarding bays of the Death Star at the arrival of the Emperor. As Red Guards slowly descend from the Imperial shuttle and flank its ramp, Darthvader and the Death Star commander kneel to their master, the last to enter the hangar. He insists that Lord Darthvader will soon capture Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill. and Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill will learn of the dark side of the Force when brought before Palpatine himself.  Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill returns to Dagobah to complete his Jedi training, but he finds Yodafrankoz is ill. He tells Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill that no further training is required and all that remains to be done is to confront Darthvader. Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill attempts to get independent confirmation of Darthvader's claim to be Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill.s father, but Yodafrankoz is evasive. Finally, Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill begs Yodafrankoz to tell him the truth, and Yodafrankoz, emotional torture clearly evident on his normally serene features, confirms Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill.s darkest fears. He correctly infers that Darthvader has used this information as an emotional weapon against Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill. and criticizes Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill for having faced Darthvader prematurely, with nearly disastrous consequences. He reminds Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill of the true nature of the Force, and of the soulcorrupting nature of the dark side. Yodafrankoz then issues a dark warning, telling Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill how his father fell to the shadow he was corrupted by the powers and influence of the Emperor. If Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill allows himself to be manipulated by this dark mind, then he too shall become what he most fears.  Finally, Yodafrankoz charges Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill with keeping alive the teachings and knowledge of the Jedi and the Force, urging him to start with his own family, with whom the Force is unusually strong. With his final breath, Yodafrankoz tells Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill that there is another Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill. Yodafrankoz dies at peace, and before Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill.s astonished eyes, his body vanishes, passing with his spirit into the Force. The spirit of Obiwankenobialecguinness confronts a distraught Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill. confirming that Darthvader was once Anakinskywalker, a Jedi who was turned to the dark side of the Force. ObiWan confesses to Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill that he made mistakes in Anakinskywalker's training, especially by not deferring to Yodafrankoz, and takes responsibility for indirectly creating the evil Darthvader. Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill counters that even now, all is not lost, that some part of Anakinskywalker remains, if only someone can reach it. When Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill asks about the other Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill. ObiWan tells him that Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill has a twin sister, hidden from Anakinskywalker and separated from Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill at birth to protect them both from the Emperor. Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill intuits that his sister is Princess Leiaorganacarriefisher. ObiWan confirms it, but warns Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill that in the eyes of the Empire, all bonds of love and caring are potential weaknesses to be exploited.  Meanwhile, the entire Rebel Alliance fleet is massing their near Sullust meeting to devise an attack strategy on the uncompleted Death Star. As part of the attack, Han and his companions must land on the forest moon of Endor and deactivate the generator that projects a protective shield up to the orbiting and incomplete Death Star. The team, led by Han, will use a stolen Imperial shuttle and confirmation code to infiltrate the heavy security measures protecting the construction site before the rest of the Rebel fleet arrives. Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill arrives at the meeting and tells Han and Leiaorganacarriefisher.rganacarriefisher that he'll join them on the dangerous commando mission. The fleet's assault on the Death Star will be lead by Landocalrissianbillydeewilliams, piloting the Millennium Falcon, which will fly into the core of the space station and destroy the main power generator.  The team arrives at Endor in the stolen shuttle and uses the confirmation code to sneak past the Imperial fleet. Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill senses that Darthvader is aboard the Imperial fleet's largest ship, the superstar destroyer  Executor, and believes he's endangering the mission. Han tells him not to worry.  When they arrive on the moon, the team happens across a small unit of Imperial biker scouts. Han tries to sneak up on the scouts to disarm them but draws their attention when he steps on a branch. Leiaorganacarriefisher.rganacarriefisher and Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill jump on speeder bikes and pursue two more scouts through the forest at high speed. They overtake them both but are separated Leiaorganacarriefisher.s bike crashes into a tree after she jumps off and she falls unconscious. Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill jumps off his own bike and battles with the the scout he'd been pursuing, forcing him to crash using his lightsaber. When Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill rejoins the team, he finds that Leiaorganacarriefisher.rganacarriefisher hasn't returned. The team looks for her but is captured by indigenous creatures called Ewoks  short, furry, intelligent forest dwellers. An Ewok called Wicket Warwickdavis befriends Leiaorganacarriefisher. but the other Ewoks who captured the rest of the Rebel party decide to sacrifice them to C3P0, who they believe is a god. Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill. having mastered the Force, levitates C3P0 to impress the Ewoks with the droid's power and scare them into giving up the sacrifice. With the help of C3PO, Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill and his party form an alliance with the Ewoks, whose stoneage technology has unexpectedly effective military applications.  Later, Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill decides that the time has come for him to face Darthvader. He confesses to Leiaorganacarriefisher.rganacarriefisher that he is her brother, and that he has to try to save the man who was once their father. She tells him to ignore his feelings and leave but Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill tells her that he must face his destiny. He surrenders peacefully to Darthvader but fails to convince his father to abandon the dark side.  They go to the Death Star to meet the Emperor, who reveals that the Rebel Alliance is walking into a trap. On the forest moon, the Rebels led by Solo and Leiaorganacarriefisher.rganacarriefisher enter the shield generator control facility only to be taken prisoner by a large legion of Imperial troops. Once they are led out of the bunker, however, the Ewoks spring a surprise counterattack. In a desperate ground battle, the Rebels and Ewoks fight the Imperial forces. Aboard the Death Star, the Emperor attempts to seduce Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill with the powers of the dark side. The Emperor reveals his plan the information that Rebel spies had stolen was part of an elaborate plan to draw out the Rebel fleet and command so they could be eliminated in one battle. As Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill.s anger builds he attacks the Emperor with his lightsaber, only to be stopped by Darthvader.s crimson blade.  During the strike team's assault, the Rebel fleet emerges from hyperspace for the battle over Endor, only to discover that the shield of the Death Star is still functioning. An intense space battle takes place as the Imperial fleet, in a second part of the Emperor's plan, appears and attacks the Rebel fleet. During the battle, the Death Star is revealed to be operational its superlaser is fired at the Rebel fleet and obliterates a Rebel star cruiser. Though Admiral Ackbar wants to abandon the attack, Landocalrissianbillydeewilliams convinces him that they must give Han and his party more time on Endor. The fleet regroups and begins to engage the Imperial fleet of star destroyers directly.  On the Death Star, the Emperor taunts Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill to give in to his anger. A ferocious lightsaber duel has erupted between Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill and his father. In the midst of combat, Darthvader reads Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill.s feelings and learns that Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill has a twin sister. When Darthvader toys with the notion of turning Leiaorganacarriefisher.rganacarriefisher to the dark side, Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill gives in to his rage and furiously gains the upper hand in the battle, slicing off Darthvader.s right robotic hand in a rage in one swift cut, and makes his father succumb to defeat at the mercy of his son's blade. Despite the Emperor's goading Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill refuses to kill his father, realizing that he is traveling down his father's path towards the dark side, and declares himself a Jedi. Realizing that Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill cannot be turned, the Emperor uses Force lightning against him to torture and attempt to kill him. Deeply affected by the sight of his son dying before him, Darthvader repents and turns on the Emperor, throwing him down a reactor shaft to his death. At the same time, however, the Emperor's Force lightning causes fatal injuries to Darthvader  and shortcircuits his breathing system. Stopping momentarily in a landing bay, Anakinskywalker asks Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill to take his mask off, knowing that he'll die, but desiring to look at his son's face with his human eyes. Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill removes the helmet, revealing the pale and scarred face of his father Sebastianshaw. Anakinskywalker says that Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill was right about him, and asks Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill to tell his sister. With those final words, Anakinskywalker dies.  Back on Endor, the strike team finally destroys the shield generator. The Rebel fleet seizes the opportunity to launch a final assault on the Death Star in space. Landocalrissianbillydeewilliams leads Wedge Antilles Denislawson and his fighter group into the bowels of the Death Star, where they fire at the main reactor, causing its collapse. Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill. with the body and armor of Anakinskywalker, escapes the Death Star in an Imperial shuttle. Moments later, Wedge in his XWing and Landocalrissianbillydeewilliams in the Millennium Falcon emerge from the Death Star just as the space station explodes. On Endor, Leiaorganacarriefisher.rganacarriefisher reassures Han Solo of her love and reveals to him that Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill is actually her brother. That evening, Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill cremates the remains of his father in a funeral pyre on Endor. The entire galaxy celebrates the fall of the Emperor and the Rebel victory over the Empire. Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill. Leiaorganacarriefisher. Han, Landocalrissianbillydeewilliams, and the rest of the rebels, along with the Ewoks, celebrate the victory as well. During the celebration, Jediknightlukeskywalkermarkhamill catches sight of the spirit figures of Obiwankenobi, Yodafrankoz, and the redeemed Anakinskywalker, who look proudly upon him.