Amateur Tennis star Guyhaines  wants to divorce his vulgar and unfaithful wife Miriam , so he can marry the elegant and beautiful Annemorton , daughter of a senator . While on a train to meet Miriam, Guyhaines encounters Brunoanthony , a pushy stranger who recognizes Guyhaines from gossip items in the newspapers and wants to discuss his marital problems. During lunch in Brunoanthony's compartment, Brunoanthony tells Guyhaines about his idea for the perfect crisscross murder he will kill Miriam, and in exchange Guyhaines will kill Brunoanthony's father. Since they are unconnected strangers, there is no identifiable motive for the crimes, and therefore no suspicion from the police. Guyhaines hurriedly departs the compartment, but leaves Brunoanthony thinking he has agreed to the deal. Guyhaines accidentally leaves his cigarette lighter behind, and Brunoanthony pockets it. Guyhaines meets Miriam at her work, where she decides to call off the divorce and play the Washington political wife. Guyhaines threatens Miriam, then calls Annemorton and tells her he wants to strangle Miriam.  Brunoanthony arrives in Guyhaines's hometown and follows Miriam and her two beaux to an amusement park, where he strangles her to death. Guyhaines's alibi a college professor who was inebriated when they met cannot remember their meeting on the train. Guyhaines's chances of being implicated increase when Brunoanthony appears repeatedly to remind Guyhaines that he is now obliged to kill Brunoanthony's father.  Brunoanthony sends Guyhaines the keys to his house, a map to his father's room, and a pistol. Soon after, Brunoanthony appears at a party at Senator Annemorton's house and hobnobs with the guests, much to Guyhaines's apprehension and Annemorton's increasing suspicion. Using another guest, he demonstrates how to strangle someone while preventing them from screaming while doing this he sees Annemorton's younger sister Barbara . Her eyeglasses and resemblance to Miriam trigger a flashback, and Brunoanthony really begins to strangle the guest. After a moment he faints, and the frightened party guests pull him off the hysterical woman. Young Barbara rushes to her sister and tells her, His hands were on her throat, but he was strangling me. Annemorton puts together the facts of the crime and confronts Guyhaines, who admits the truth.  Guyhaines agrees to Brunoanthony's plan over the telephone and creeps into Brunoanthony's home at night. When he reaches the father's room he tries to warn the older man of Brunoanthony's intentions, but finds Brunoanthony waiting for him instead. Brunoanthony tells Guyhaines that, because he will not complete his end of the bargain, he should take responsibility for the murder which belongs to him to that end he will frame Guyhaines for the murder of Miriam.  Annemorton visits Brunoanthony's house and tells his befuddled mother  that her son is responsible for murder, but the woman does not believe her and will not admit how dangerous her son is. Brunoanthony overhears the conversation and lets Annemorton know that he has Guyhaines's lighter and that he plans to plant it at the scene of Miriam's murder. Annemorton and Guyhaines devise a plan so that Guyhaines can beat Brunoanthony to the scene of the crime while still appearing in a tennis match elsewhere.  Guyhaines wins the tennis match but takes much longer than expected likewise, Brunoanthony is delayed when he drops Guyhaines's lighter down a storm drain and must force his arm down the drain to recover it. Guyhaines arrives at the amusement park while Brunoanthony is still waiting for sunset. The two men struggle on the carousel. The police arrive and fire on Guyhaines, but a stray shot hits the carousel operator. The ride spins wildly out of control and crashes, and Brunoanthony is mortally wounded. He tells the police that Guyhaines committed the murder, but as he dies, his hand opens to reveal the incriminating lighter. An amusement park employee remembers Brunoanthony's previous visit the night of Miriam's death, implicating Brunoanthony as the murderer.  Reunited with Annemorton on a train home, Guyhaines is asked by a friendly clergyman seated near them if he is Guyhaines. Guyhaines, remembering this is the way Brunoanthony started their fatal conversation, quickly leaves the club car with Annemorton, perplexing the clergyman.