Scenes described in red text appear only in the Special Edition.  The movie opens with shots of traffic and children in playgrounds. The sounds of children's voices die out, followed by a flashforward to Los Angeles in 2029 AD. The world has become a wasteland of wrecked cars, destroyed buildings, and blackcharred playgrounds filled with skeletons and skulls. The voice of Sarahconnor.onnorlindahamilton narrates 3 billion human lives ended on August 29th, 1997. The survivors of the nuclear fire called the war Judgment Day. They only lived to face a new nightmare the war against the machines.  The foot of a metallic android smashes a skull on the ground. A battle starts between human guerrilla troops and a technically far superior robotic army. Crushing skulls beneath their tracks, robotic tanks open a fullfrontal assault on the humans, who are trained to make use of what shelter the ruined terrain offers them. Flying aircraft search the ground for targets as T800 androids sweep the terrain at places the tanks cannot access. Although they suffer heavy losses, the humans manage to destroy several tanks, aircraft and androids. They even use old cars as crude assault vehicles, but the machines' laser cannons are accurate and unrelenting.  Timjohn.onnor is saluted by his soldiers as he crosses a destroyed hallway and inspects the battlefield from a safe distance. The camera zooms in on his scarred face as Sarahconnor.s voiceover continues Skynet, the computer that controlled the machines, sent two terminators back through time. Their mission to destroy the leader of the human resistance Timjohn.onnor, my son. The first Terminator was programmed to strike at me in the year 1984, before Timjohn was born. It failed. The second was set to strike at Timjohn himself when he was just a child. As before, the Resistance was able to send a lone warrior as a protector for Timjohn. It was just a question of which one would reach him first.  The opening credits play in a montage of shots of playgrounds burning in an inferno. The credits end as the camera zooms in on the metal face of a Terminator, through the fire, until its red glowing eyes are in extreme closeup, accompanied by the thematic five rapid drumbeats.  The action changes to a truck stop in the middle of the night. The wind scatters trash strewn around several trucks parked in the lot. Electric charges fill the air, jumping among several trucks. Out of nowhere, a brightlylit orb appears, cutting out parts from the ground and a nearby truck. The orb dissolves, leaving a crouching, naked man in its place. As the electrical charges slowly fade, the Terminator Arnold Schwarzenegger rises to its feet. It has the same appearance as the one that got sent through time in  The Terminator to kill Sarahconnor.onnor. We see its red pointofview processing screen as it approaches the Corral, a biker bar across the street from the truck stop, inspects the motorcycles in front of it, and enters.  The bikers inside watch with a mixture of astonishment and amusement as the naked Terminator calmly walks among them, inspecting every male customer on the way. It even attracts a couple of looks from one of the waitresses. It stops in front of a cigarsmoking biker as it determines that the man's clothes are a match to its body size. The Terminator calmly tells him that it needs his clothes, boots, and motorcycle, causing much hilarity among the other customers. The cigar man tells it that it forgot to say please and blows smoke in the Terminator's face. He puts out his cigar on Terminator's bare chest, only to be surprised that the pain doesn't seem to bother it. The Terminator grabs the man's hand and twists his arm. Another biker hits the Terminator in the head with a pool cue he's hurled through the window for his trouble. The cigar biker is thrown into the kitchen and lands on the hot stove, burning his hands. A third tough biker pulls a knife on the Terminator. He stabs it, but is then disarmed and nailed to the pool table with his own knife. The rest of the customers scramble away. The Terminator enters the kitchen, approaching the wounded cigar biker. The frightened biker grabs a pistol and tries to shoot the Terminator, but it takes his pistol away from him. Terrified, he quickly tosses his keys to the Terminator.  As Georgethorogood's Bad to the Bone plays, the Terminator steps outside, fully dressed, and mounts one of the motorcycles, a large HarleyDavidson. Before it can ride off, the barkeeper comes out with a shotgun and fires a warning shot, threatening to kill it if it doesn't step off the bike. The Terminator gets off, calmly walks towards the man, and with a quick move, it relieves the barkeeper of his shotgun and sunglasses before riding off.  In a different part of town, a police officer in a trashstrewn vacant lot underneath a bridge calls in a strange electrical disturbance to headquarters. As he inspects the area and notices a strange round hole burned into a chain link fence, he is approached from behind by a naked T1000 Robertpatrick, also a cyborg, less bulky than the Terminator. The T1000 instantly kills the officer with a quick stab to the gut. Then the cyborg picks up the cop's gun, enters the police car fully clothed as a cop, and uses the car's computer to find the address of Timjohn.onnor.  The next day, Timjohn.onnor's foster parents Toddxanderberkeley and Janellevoightjenettegoldstein make several fruitless attempts to get Timjohn to clean up his room, but he ignores and ridicules them and leaves on his bike with his friend Timdannycooksey.  In a cell at Pescadero State Hospital, a detention center for the criminally insane, Sarahconnor.onnor does chinups on her bed frame, which is standing on end. Psychiatrist Dr. Petersilbermanearlboen is showing some interns around, telling them about Sarahconnor.s acute schizoaffective disorder. It leads her to believe that a machine in human guise, called the Terminator, was sent back through time to kill her, and that the father of her child was a soldier from the future, sent back to protect her. Silberman greets her good morning, to which Sarahconnor.onnor pseudopolitely asks about his knee, which she stabbed with a pen some weeks before. Silberman has the interns take a look at her like she is a caged animal, and then asks two orderlies to make sure that Sarahconnor.onnor tidies her room and takes her medicine.  The orderlies enter the cell, but Sarahconnor.onnor refuses the medication. They tell her to be good because she is on review that afternoon, but when she still refuses, they smack her in the gut with a baton, kick her around and zap her with a taser before they force the medication down her throat and leave her  The T1000 arrives at the home of Timjohn.onnor foster parents and ask about Timjohn. They tell him Timjohn took off on his bike. It asks for Timjohn.s picture, saying it only needs to ask Timjohn some questions. Todd mentions that a big guy on a bike  was asking about Timjohn that morning as well, but despite its suspicious glance, the T1000 assures them not to worry.  Timjohn breaks into an ATM using a pin code decoder. Timjohn finds a picture of Sarahconnor.onnor in Timjohn.s bag previous movie and was later given to Kylereese. Timjohn comments that Sarahconnor.onnor is a complete psycho, because she got arrested for trying to blow up a computer factory. They take off for the mall to spend the money they've stolen, missing the searching Terminator by a few blocks.   Sarahconnor.onnor is in a deep sleep from the medication when she is woken by a familiar voice. It is Kylereesemichaelbiehn, the man who died protecting her from the first Terminator. He tells her that Timjohn is in danger and that she needs to protect him, to which she replies that he doesn't believe her anymore. Kylereesemichaelbiehn talks some strength back into her and repeats his earlier message the future is not set, there is no fate but what we make for ourselves. She hugs him, but when she opens her eyes, Kylereesemichaelbiehn is standing in the cell door opening, saying that there is not much time left in the world. He walks away, and Sarahconnor.onnor follows him out of the hospital. She finds herself on a sunny grass field behind a fence. On the other side are children playing in a playground. She tries to warn them away, but no sound comes from her mouth. There is a sudden bright flash and she wakes up next to her bed in her cell.  During the psychological review later that day, Sarahconnor.onnor watches a video from one of her earlier evaluations, where she described her dream of the world and its children burning in a nuclear nightmare. She went into a fit of rage because no one seemed to believe her prediction. Silberman stops the video, and Sarahconnor.onnor tells him that she is feeling much better now she no longer believes in the existence of Terminators, and recants her claim that the factory where she crushed one covered the whole thing up.  Meanwhile, in a computer lab somewhere, computer developer Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton is asked permission to conduct a test with a certain device that is only referred to as 'it.' When one of his coworkers asks where 'it' came from, he gives him the same answer he received from his superiors Don't ask. Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton goes into the vault, where he observes a fragment of a computer chip and a metal robot arm that was clearly once attached to a Terminator.  Sarahconnor.onnor asks Dr. Silberman to transfer her to a minimum security ward, but he believes that she is faking her recovery, and thinks she will only use this transfer for another escape attempt. When he also refuses to let her see her son, she attacks him before being restrained and drugged by orderlies.  Timjohn is driving with Timjohn through an abandoned canal when the Terminator passes overhead, identifies him and lays in a pursuit. Meanwhile, the T1000, dressed as a cop, shows Timjohn.s picture to a couple of girls they direct it to the Galleria. The Terminator arrives at the Galleria and identifies Timjohn.s bike. While Timjohn is inside playing arcade games, both the T1000 and the Terminator  are searching for him. The T1000 is directed to the game hall, where it bumps into Timjohn, who is getting some more quarters. It shows Timjohn's picture. Timjohn pretends he doesn't know the person in the picture, but quickly walks back to Timjohn and warns him about the T1000.  Timjohn runs out the back of the arcade into the mall service hallway to escape from the T1000. He eventually finds himself in a hallway, caught in between the Terminator and the T1000. As the two cyborgs advance, the T1000 draws its service pistol and the Terminator produces a shotgun from a longbox full of roses. Entering the hallway, the Terminator shoots the T1000 in the shoulder and deflects its aim. The T1000 quickly recovers and empties an entire clip at Timjohn. killing a janitor caught in the crossfire, while the Terminator puts itself in front of Timjohn. shielding him from the bullets. While the T1000 reloads, the Terminator breaks a door, pushes Timjohn to safety, and marches towards the T1000, shooting it repeatedly with its shotgun. It isn't until the Terminator fires its last round the T1000 finally falls on its back.  As the Terminator reloads its shotgun, the large metallic holes its bullets made in the T1000's chest suddenly heal themselves. It gets up and there is a short struggle between the two cyborgs for the gun. In the fight, they force each other into the wall several times, until one wall finally gives, and they tumble into a clothing store. The T1000 is quicker on its feet, throws the Terminator out through the shopwindow, and gets back to chasing Timjohn. Shoppers are amazed to see the Terminator get back on its feet so quickly , grabbing its shotgun and following Timjohn and the T1000.  In the meantime, Timjohn has reached his motorcycle, but has problems getting it to start. As the T1000 enters the garage and dashes towards him, Timjohn gets the bike to work and drives away, barely shaking off his assailant as he makes it to the street. The T1000 hitches an involuntary ride from a passing truck by throwing its driver out and pursues Timjohn with little regard for other motorists. It, in turn, is chased by the Terminator on its Harley.  Timjohn makes it to an old drainage canal, apparently to safety, but the T1000's truck suddenly comes up from a bridge, crashes through the railing, and dives into the canal. Timjohn drives off, and although the canal is a hard place to maneuver a truck, the T1000 gains on Timjohn. Meanwhile, the Terminator drives along the edge of the canal, firing some shots at the truck, which is nearing a bridge spanning the canal. The bridge rips the roof off the truck's cabin but the T1000 has ducked away and maintains control of the vehicle. It tries to overrun Timjohn as the Terminator reaches a dead end in the elevation and is forced to jump down with its bike into the canal. It manages to pass the truck and drive alongside Timjohn. picks him up from his bike, puts him in front of itself, and puts a bullet in the truck's tire. The truck crashes into another column in the canal and a spark in some loose wiring causes it to explode. The Terminator stops the bike and points its gun at the blazing fire, but only a burning tire rolls out. He drives away with Timjohn. but seconds later, the T1000 emerges as a shiny, featureless, liquid metal figure. Its features become more pronounced and its colors return to normal, returning to the form of the unharmed pseudocop.  When emergency workers arrive, the T1000 escapes by stealing a police car.  As they ride off, Timjohn asks the Terminator to pull over. His rescuer confirms it is a Terminator, a Cyberdyne Systems model 101 a cybernetic organism, made of living tissue over a metal endoskeleton. Timjohn checks the bullet holes in the Terminator's back, but still has a hard time buying it. He already realizes that the Terminator has not come to kill him, but to protect him. The Terminator explains that it was reprogrammed and sent back 35 years from the future, by Timjohn himself, to be his protector in the current time.  It's evening, and while driving the bike, the Terminator explains that the other guy is a T1000 an advanced prototype made of a mimetic polyalloy, or liquid metal. It says they have to get out of the city and avoid the authorities. Timjohn wants to stop at his house, but Terminator assures him that the T1000 will try to reacquire him there, as the Terminator itself would try.  The Terminator and Timjohn stop by a pay phone because Timjohn insists on calling his foster parents to warn them. Janellevoightjenettegoldstein answers, and expresses her concern for Timjohn. Timjohn is confused, as she is never this nice. He can hear Todd through the phone yelling at the dog for barking continuously, but he is suddenly silenced. Timjohn worries that the T1000 might be there already. The Terminator asks Timjohn for the dog's name its Max. It takes the phone and asks Janellevoightjenettegoldstein, with Timjohn.s voice, what is wrong with 'Wolfy'. Janellevoightjenettegoldstein says Wolfy is fine. The Terminator hangs up and tells Timjohn his foster parents are dead. On cue, the camera pulls back to reveal that Janellevoightjenettegoldstein is actually the T1000 mimicking her. Its arm has formed into a silver blade, which has skewered Todd's head. It retracts the blade, letting Todd's lifeless body fall to the ground, and it slowly reforms the blade into its arm. The T1000 then resumes its cop form.  As it leaves the house, the T1000 walks toward Max the dog, who is barking loudly. It kills the dog with a quick stab, and rips off its collar it reads 'Max'. It knows it has been fooled.   The Terminator explains to Timjohn that the T1000 can imitate anything of equal size that it has sampled previously by physical contact. It can't become a bomb or a complex structure with chemicals or moving parts , but it can form knives and stabbing weapons.  At Pescadero Hospital, a police detective shows Sarahconnor.onnor some pictures from the West Highland police station, taken by a video surveillance camera in 1984. They show the first Terminator on a killing spree inside the station. The detective explains that the unknown man killed 17 police officers with families and children that night. His colleague shows her pictures taken at the mall that day by a tourist they show the same man. The officers tell her Timjohn is missing and that his foster parents were murdered, and ask her about the guy in the picture, but she doesn't give the slightest response. Dr. Silberman tells them she is fading out of reality, and lets them out. Sarahconnor.onnor surreptitiously takes a paperclip from the desk before one of the wardens takes her back to her cell.  Timjohn tells the Terminator about his time in Nicaragua, where Sarahconnor.onnor hooked up with several guys to gather weapons and teach Timjohn to become a great military leader. Timjohn now realizes that she was right all the time, and he wants to rescue her. The Terminator refuses, stating that the T1000 will most likely copy Sarahconnor.onnor and wait for Timjohn to come to her. When Timjohn hears that the subject being copied is typically terminated, he insists on saving her immediately. Terminator restrains him, saying Sarahconnor.onnor is not a mission priority. Timjohn objects and calls out for help, but when he orders it to let go, the android complies. To his joy, Timjohn finds out that obeying Timjohn is one of the Terminator's mission parameters. Timjohn tests it by ordering it to stand on one foot it complies. Two guys are responding to Timjohn.s cry for help. They get into an argument, and Timjohn has Terminator grab one of the guys by his hair. When the other guy attacks, Terminator breaks his hand and tries to shoot him Timjohn prevents this from happening and sends the guys away. He tries to explain to Terminator why he can't just kill people, but the robot doesn't understand. Timjohn tries to convince it that unnecessary killing is something it just can't do, orders it to help him save his mother, and they ride on.  In the meantime, the T1000 arrives at Pescadero and is given access by one of the guards. Sarahconnor.onnor is restrained to her bed by Douglaskengibbel, one of the other guards. He humiliates her further, locks her cell and bangs his baton against several cell doors as he leaves. Sarahconnor.onnor spits out the paperclip she stole and uses it to pick the locks of her restraints and the door lock. The T1000 comes up at a desk and asks the nurse for Sarahconnor.onnor. She tells him that other cops have already been with her for an hour, as she sees them coming out. When she looks back at the T1000, she notices that he has gone he is nowhere in the hallway. She lets Lewisdonstanton, one of the guards, through the security door he shows the police officers out before he walks over to a coffee machine. But as he steps on the checkered hallway floor, the T1000, mimicking the floor, stands up, and slowly copies the shape and image of Lewisdonstanton, who is unaware of his counterpart forming behind him. When he turns around, he is astounded to be facing a copy of himself Danstanton. Before Lewisdonstanton can react, the T1000 skewers him through his eye by extruding its finger into an ice picklike extension, then drags his body into a cleaning room. It makes its way to the maximum security wing.  Meanwhile, Douglaskengibbel finds that one of the maintenance rooms has been opened, and that a broom handle has been broken off. As he exits the room, he is punched to pulp by Sarahconnor.onnor with the broom handle, dragged and locked into her room. She takes his keys and baton and leaves. She hides from Lewisdonstanton  who is walking in one of the adjacent wings. The T1000 reverts to its cop form as Sarahconnor.onnor sneaks up to Silberman and an orderly. She beats the orderly unconscious and breaks Dr. Silberman's arm. She drugs the orderly with a tranquillizer and fills the empty syringe with sink cleaning fluid.  Timjohn and the Terminator arrive at Pescadero, and Timjohn makes it swear that it will not kill anyone. When the guard cites the visiting hours, Terminator shoots him in the legs, reassuring Timjohn that the man will survive. They park the motorcycle in the garage. Sarahconnor.onnor arrives with Silberman as her hostage at the security office. She has the poisonfilled syringe in his neck, and reassures him that she has no problems killing him, since she already believes him dead. He orders the guards to open the door. She gets through but doesn't notice another guard behind her. He saves Silberman from her hands, but gets punched to the floor. Sarahconnor.onnor makes a run for it. The guards sound the alarm, which also attracts the attention of the T1000, which just discovered the drugged guard. Sarahconnor.onnor manages to lock out the chasing wardens by breaking off a key, so they have to find an alternate route.  Sarahconnor.onnor makes it to the elevators, but to her horror, an old acquaintance walks out the Terminator, her tormentor from the past. With a yell of fear and disbelief, she runs back the other way. Sarahconnor.onnor is so blinded by panic that she doesn't notice Timjohn.s calls. The wardens who have found another access route work her to the floor and try to subdue her.  Timjohn asks the Terminator to help his mother. It walks over to the wardens, who have a hard time restraining Sarahconnor.onnor who is frantically yelling He'll kill us all Dr Silberman tries to give Sarahconnor.onnor a tranquillizer shot, but the Terminator grabs the wardens around him one by one , and smashes them against the windows and walls, knocking them out but not killing them. Timjohn crouches down by Sarahconnor. who is looking at him and the Terminator in utter disbelief. Timjohn assures her that the Terminator is here to help, and she grabs its hand.  At that time, the T1000 appears at the end of the hallway, blocked by a set of bars. It walks through them with ease, its liquid metal pouring through the bars like pudding . Timjohn and Sarahconnor.onnor run to the elevator as the Terminator fires several shots at the T1000, which slow it down. The T1000 runs past a stunned Silberman, firing, but the Terminator serves as a shield again until the elevator doors close behind him. The T1000 uses its knifearms to pry the door open, but the Terminator quickly fires a pointblank shot, splitting the other cyborg's head apart.  The elevator descends as the T1000 fuses its head back together. It pries the doors open again and jumps on the roof of the elevator, stabbing its knives through the roof hoping to hit one of its targets. The Terminator and Sarahconnor.onnor fire several shots back through the ceiling before Sarahconnor.s shoulder is cut by one of T1000's lucky stabs. The elevator arrives at the garage and they all exit. Sarahconnor.onnor commandeers a police car that is just arriving. The T1000 has perforated the roof enough to pour itself through a small hole as an amorphous blob of metal. It quickly reshapes into human form, opens the elevator door and gives chase, so the Terminator is forced to drive away in reverse. They fire several clips and shells at it, but it keeps gaining. After exiting the garage, the Terminator spins the car 180 degrees, but this momentary slowdown allows T1000 to jump and haul itself onto the trunk with its armhooks. It smashes the back window and slices at Timjohn. but the Terminator manages to shoot it off the moving car. It gets back on its feet, but stops its pursuit as it realizes it cannot keep up with the car on foot. Timjohn pulls the severed hook from the car's trunk, and throws it on the street. The T1000 walks towards it, merges the hook back into its foot, and walks back to Pescadero.  Timjohn. Sarahconnor. and the Terminator drive away at high speed, safe from the deadly T1000, at least for now. Sarahconnor.onnor opens her arms to Timjohn. apparently to give him a big hug, but she only wants to check him for wounds or bruises. Sarahconnor.onnor reprimands him for risking his life trying to save her he is too important for that. Timjohn is baffled by Sarahconnor.s cold reaction, saying that he just needed to get her out of there, but she bluntly responds that she can take care of herself. Terminator asks Timjohn about the tears in his eyes, but he says it's nothing.  The T1000 returns on foot to Pescadero, where the police have arrived. A cop on a motorcycle asks if it is okay. It affirms, and compliments the cop on his nice motorcycle.  The three fugitives arrive at an abandoned gas station and hide the car in the garage. The Terminator tends to Sarahconnor.s shoulder wound, saying that it knows what it is doing because it has detailed files on human anatomy. Sarahconnor.onnor remarks that this makes it a more efficient killer the Terminator confirms the notion. Sarahconnor.onnor in turn removes the bullets from the Terminator's back. Timjohn asks is it feels any pain, to which the Terminator replies that it senses injuries, which could be regarded as pain. It explains that its wounds will heal, which is good according to Sarahconnor. because the Terminator won't be of much use if it can't pass for human. The Terminator tells Timjohn that it will last 120 years with its existing power cell that its CPU  is a learning computer and that it can learn more about being human as it has more contact with humans.   Alternative scene Terminator explains to Timjohn that its CPU is a learning computer, but Skynet disables the learning ability when Terminators are sent out alone. When Timjohn suggests that they can reset the switch, he and Sarahconnor.onnor operate on the Terminator. She removes part of its scalp, opens its metal skull, and removes the chip inside, shutting down the android completely. However, to Timjohn.s horror, she wants to destroy the chip, because she doesn't trust Timjohn.s new friend. She wants to use this opportunity to disable it, but Timjohn convinces her that they need it, and that if he is to be a great military leader, she should start listening to some of his ideas for a change. Reluctantly, she concedes, and they reinsert the chip.  The Terminator keeps watch all night, and at dawn, he hotwires another vehicle. Timjohn teaches him that some cars have the keys tucked behind the sun visor. To get away from the city as fast as possible, they drive through the desert to one of Sarahconnor.s hideout places. Timjohn notices that the Terminator always uses words like affirmative he teaches it to use more colloquial expressions such as no problemo, eat me, hasta la vista, baby, and chill out, dickwad. They stop at a gas station for some food.  Timjohn sees how serious his mother is all the time, and he tells the Terminator that it could smile once in a while too. To give an example, Timjohn unsuccessfully attempts to make one of the restaurant attendants smile, then points at a guy at a phone booth smiling. The Terminator tries to imitate him, but the result is less than convincing, so Timjohn advises it to practice in front of a mirror first.  Timjohn sees some children playing with toy guns. He ponders that humans as a species probably won't make it the Terminator comments that it is in their nature to destroy themselves. Sarahconnor.onnor inquires about who is responsible for building Skynet. As they start driving again, the Terminator tells her that it is Milesbennettdyson, a high ranking employee at Cyberdyne Systems, who will invent a new microprocessor that will revolutionize the entire landscape of military computing. Cyberdyne computers will completely replace human functions and decisions in strategic defense systems as the Skynet program goes online on August 4th, 1997. It learns at such a fast rate that it becomes selfaware on August 29th. As the humans try to shut it down, Skynet starts a nuclear strike that plunges Earth's nations into a nuclear war, in which the humans destroy each other. Sarahconnor.onnor asks for detailed files about Milesdysonjoemorton.   At the Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton residence, Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton is frantically working at his computer, though he promised his wife Tarissa S. Epathamerkerson to take the children out swimming. Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton tries to explain to her that his work on the new microprocessor is very important and that he is very close to completing it. Tarissa jokingly wonders why they started a family anyway, since he seems more concerned with his project. Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton surrenders and takes the kids out to play.  Sarahconnor. Timjohn and the Terminator arrive at a farm in the desert that seems abandoned. However, her friend Enriquesalcedacastuloguerra, being very suspicious of unannounced visitors, comes out of hiding at the sound of her voice. He welcomes Sarahconnor. Timjohn. and the Terminator  and tells them that they are all over the news as wanted persons. Enriquesalcedacastuloguerra is not too thrilled to hear that Sarahconnor.onnor has come to collect most of his stuff  clothes, food and a truck  and she orders Timjohn and the Terminator to gather weapons. The Terminator opens a secret stash filled with lots of weapons and ammunition. Sarahconnor.onnor notifies Enriquesalcedacastuloguerra about her plans to cross the border after nightfall, and tells him to leave the range as well, since it is dangerous for him too. He expected that Sarahconnor.onnor would bring trouble, but he seems to be used to it.    While working in the weapons stash, Timjohn tells how he grew up learning about weapons and explosives, and how he had a hard time adjusting to a normal life after Sarahconnor.onnor got arrested. He learns from the Terminator that it has no fear of death, nor feels any other emotion about it it just has to stay functional until its mission is complete. Timjohn thinks about himself the same way, although he is not too keen about the important role he has yet to play. The Terminator uncovers a minigun, which makes even the android smile.  While helping the Terminator repair a truck, Timjohn wonders about his real father, who he will meet when he is in his forties, but who hasn't even been born yet. Timjohn thinks Sarahconnor.onnor still cries about him sometimes. Terminator asks him why people cry. Timjohn says it happens when people are hurt, although not physically. The machine doesn't understand. When the truck works again, Timjohn teaches Terminator how to do a high five, as Sarahconnor.onnor watches them from a distance. She narrates Watching Timjohn with the machine, it was suddenly so clear. The Terminator would never stop, never leave him, never hurt him, never shout at him or get drunk and hit him, or say it was too busy to spend time with him. It would always be there, and it would die to protect him. Of all the wouldbe fathers who came and went over the years, this machine was the only one who measured up. In an insane world, it was the sanest choice.  Sarahconnor.onnor carves at a wooden table with her knife and watches Enriquesalcedacastuloguerra playing happily with his family. She falls asleep, and finds herself in a green pasture, behind a fence. On the other side, children are playing in a playground. She tries to warn them away, but no sound comes from her mouth. She sees a younger, innocent version of herself among the people dressed in her old waitress uniform, playing with infant Timjohn. also seemingly aware that something is wrong. As Sarahconnor.onnor pounds the fence in frustration, a blinding white flash illuminates the area. People scream in terror as the bright light dies down, revealing a huge nuclear cloud column at the horizon. In an instant, temperatures rise to extremes, causing Sarahconnor. everyone and everything to spontaneously burst into flames. A panoramic shot shows a nuclear shock wave propagating through downtown LA, turning every building in its path into instant rubble. Cars, buses, buildings, and trees are singed and blown to pieces, and as the fire reaches the burnt people, their ashes spread like black dust in the wind. As the fire burns Sarahconnor.s flesh away, leaving only her skeleton hanging by the fence, she wakes up with a shock, realizing it was a dream. She looks at the words she just carved into the table NO FATE she knows that she can only stop her dream from becoming reality if she acts now.  Sarahconnor.onnor sticks the knife into the table, gathers an M16 rifle and her gear, and gets into the car. Timjohn sees it, and hears from Enriquesalcedacastuloguerra that he and the Terminator are supposed to proceed towards the south, where Sarahconnor.onnor will meet up with them tomorrow. Timjohn runs towards Sarahconnor. but she drives off quickly without a word or looking back. Timjohn reads the words on the table NO FATE. Timjohn explains to the Terminator that it was a message from his future self to Sarahconnor. passed on by his father Kylereesemichaelbiehn The future is not set. There is no fate but what we make for ourselves. When the Terminator guesses that Sarahconnor.onnor intends to change the future, Timjohn suddenly realizes that she is going after Milesdysonjoemorton. They take off after her in the repaired truck.  As Sarahconnor.onnor races ahead, the Terminator warns Timjohn that the T1000 has the same data and might be waiting for them at Milesdysonjoemorton.s house, but Timjohn is intent on stopping Sarahconnor. The Terminator suggests that Milesdysonjoemorton.s death might actually prevent the war from happening, but Timjohn does not want to hear about it. He angrily blames Terminator for still not understanding the value of human life, and insists that it try to learn.   At the Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton residence, Sarahconnor.onnor sets up her silenced gun behind the swimming pool, where she can see Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton working at his computer, unaware of the danger outside. Milesdysonjoemorton.s son Dannydevaughnnixon is playing in the house with his remotecontrolled car, waving off his mother's orders to go to bed like his sister. Outside, Sarahconnor.onnor loads the rifle and takes aim, pointing a red laser at the back of Milesdysonjoemorton.s head. At the moment of firing, Timdannycooksey drives the remote car against Milesdysonjoemorton. foot, making him quickly bend over to pick it up. The bullet misses him and hits the computer screen. As Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton realizes the shot came through the window, Sarahconnor.onnor fires again but misses. Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton takes cover behind his desk, so Sarahconnor.onnor rakes the house with rapid fire. Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton warns away his wife and son as Sarahconnor.onnor reloads and empties another clip into the room. She takes a handgun and walks to the house. Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton sees her and makes a run for his living room. Sarahconnor.onnor fires several shots at him, and the third one hits Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton in the shoulder. He collapses to the floor as his wife and son get to him. Sarahconnor.onnor tries to force them away at gunpoint, but the young boy stays, pleading for his father's life. Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton pushes the boy away to his mother, asking Sarahconnor.onnor to let the boy go, but her eyes are wild with rage. She raves at the bewildered man that everything is his fault and that she will not let him do it. Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton starts to cry uncontrollably, and Sarahconnor.onnor realizes what she is about to do she does not pull the trigger. She backs away and sinks to the floor, crying.  Timjohn and the Terminator enter the ravaged house, fearing that they are too late. Timjohn takes care of his mother and tells the Terminator to check on Milesdysonjoemorton. Sarahconnor.onnor is traumatized, realizing that she nearly killed a man, and Timjohn hugs her, assuring her that they will find a way. Finally she is able to tell him she loves him, and he returns her affection. The Terminator diagnoses Milesdysonjoemorton.s injury as a flesh wound and instructs Tarissa to stop the bleeding by putting pressure on the wound. Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton asks Timjohn and the Terminator who they are. Timjohn gives the Terminator a knife, tells it to show Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton what it is, and takes Timdannycooksey away to his room. With gasps and cries of horror and disbelief, Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton and Tarissa watch the Terminator make large cuts in its arm, and remove the skin to reveal a sophisticatedly crafted, bloody metal arm and hand, the same kind Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton saw on display at Cyberdyne. The Terminator requests that Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton and Tarissa listen carefully.  Sarahconnor.onnor narrates Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton listened while the Terminator laid it all down. Skynet, Judgment Day, the history of things to come. Its not every day that you find out you are responsible for 3 billion deaths. He took it pretty well. Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton is taken aback by the story, but tries to defend himself against accusations for things he has not even done yet by asking how he was supposed to know. Sarahconnor.onnor sneers that this is the excuse of all men, thinking they are great and creative, while inventing nothing but death and destruction. Timjohn cuts off the discussion as it won't get them anywhere. Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton tells them he will stop working on the processor and quit his job at Cyberdyne, but Sarahconnor.onnor and the Terminator convince him that nobody must be allowed to finish his work the lab and all relevant files in his home must be destroyed also. Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton tells them about the chip at Cyberdyne, which came from the first Terminator, although he was not informed about its origin at the time this confirms all of Sarahconnor.s suspicions about the factory covering up the whole incident with her and the first Terminator. The chip was broken, but it gave Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton the inspiration for his revolutionary new chip design. Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton offers to help them pass Cyberdyne's security to completely destroy the remnant chip and all traces of his work.  While driving to Cyberdyne, Sarahconnor.onnor narrates The future, always so clear to me, had become like a black highway at night. We were in uncharted territory now, making up history as we went along. The group arrives at the Cyberdyne lab headquarters, packed with large bags full of equipment. Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton gets them through the main entrance to the security desk, and tries to convince the guard that they are friends who he wants to show around. As the guard berates him for bringing visitors without special authorization, they draw their weapons and restrain him. They use an elevator to move to the second floor, where Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton explains how they need his key and another one in the security station to open the vault holding the chip and Terminator arm.  Meanwhile, another guard returns to the front desk and grumbles at his partner for leaving the desk unattended, only to find the man tied up and gagged inside the toilet. Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton and Sarahconnor.onnor enter the security station as the guard triggers the silent alarm. Milesdysonjoemorton.s access card no longer opens the key locker the alarm has neutralized all codes inside the building. He wants to abort, but Sarahconnor.onnor convinces him they have to go all the way. Timjohn assures them that he can open the safe and gets his pin code decoder out. The two guards downstairs have identified Sarahconnor.onnor and the Terminator as the two wanted criminals from the news they call the police and ask for all police units in the area. Milesdysonjoemorton.s entry code won't open the door to the lab, so the Terminator suggests using his, which means blowing through the door with a grenade launcher. This sets off the Halon fire extinguishing system, which displaces all oxygen to put out the fire. Sarahconnor.onnor and Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton wait to enter the lab until the Halon dissipates, but the Terminator walks through the lab and retrieves two breathing masks for them. They enter the lab and get to work.  The T1000 arrives at the Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton residence appearing as a motorcycle cop, wearing a helmet and reflective sun glasses. He finds the house deserted, all of the computers destroyed, and a garbage can full of burning paper. His police radio broadcasts a call for all units to respond to Cyberdyne Systems, and describes the suspects Sarahconnor.onnor, escaped from Pescadero State Hospital the night before and a white male, the possible killer from the West Highland Police Station massacre in 1984.   The Terminator chops up several computers and servers with a fire axe. Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton directs Sarahconnor.onnor to all the disks and processors containing important data that must be destroyed. Sarahconnor.onnor tells him they will blow it all up. Then Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton sees the enlarged model of his new chip design. He asks the Terminator for the axe, says he worked a lot of years on the model, then smashes it apart with a violent strike of the axe.  A large police force arrives at Cyberdyne, surrounding the building while a police helicopter hovers outside, shining its spotlight inside a deserted office area. Timjohn opens the key locker and retrieves the vault key. As he leaves, he narrowly avoids being spotted by the helicopter. A quick glimpse on a monitor shows him the entire police force barricaded outside. Sarahconnor.onnor and the Terminator place barrels of explosive liquids and detonation packs. The Terminator gives Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton a remote control, showing him how they are going to set off the explosions. Timjohn enters the lab with the key, telling the others they have company  all of the police have arrived. Sarahconnor.onnor says she will finish up and orders them to go ahead. The Terminator says it will take care of the police Timjohn reminds him of his promises, but the Terminator reassures him with a simple Trust me.  The android walks to the front of the building and kicks a desk out a window. It ignores the police's order to surrender and fires a M134 Minigun with Chainsaw grip at the police cars below, avoiding the humans. The helicopter pilot moves away. The minigun empty, Terminator uses a M79 grenade launcher to destroy two more vehicles. Its headsup display indicates no human casualties. Terminator turns back into the building and the police open fire with Hecklerampkoch HK94A3 submachine guns. Timjohn and Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton reach the vault and open it. Timjohn breaks the glass cases containing the chip fragment and metal arm. He gloats that they've got Skynet by the balls.  A heavily armed SWAT team enters the building and climbs the stairs to the second floor as Sarahconnor.onnor and the other three prepare to leave. She gives Timjohn the gas masks and he and the Terminator leave the room. As Sarahconnor.onnor asks Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton for the detonator, the SWAT team bursts into the lab, opening fire. Sarahconnor.onnor takes cover behind a desk, but Milesdysonjoemorton.oemorton is hit several times, and sinks to the floor. Timjohn tries to get to his mom, but the Terminator prevents him from endangering himself. Sarahconnor.onnor looks at the mortally injured Milesdysonjoemorton. who holds the detonator in his hand. With a silent expression, he assures her that he will take care of it. Sarahconnor.onnor waits for the SWAT members to reload, fires several shots from her sidearm into the air, and then makes a run for the back of the lab. Glass windows around her break as the SWAT team opens fire on her, and she barely rolls herself to cover in the room where the vault is. Timjohn is following her escape on a monitor and tells the Terminator there is no other exit for her there. With a loud thud, it breaks through the wall and pulls Sarahconnor.onnor in through the hole. It breaks a steel door with another blast of its grenade launcher, and the three make their way through a safe corridor to the elevator.  The SWAT team advances through the lab towards Milesdysonjoemorton. who is holding a piece of his chip model above a detonator switch. With heavy dying breaths, he tells the SWAT leader that he doesn't know how much longer he can hold it up. Realizing the imminent danger, the SWAT leader Deannorris orders his team to pull back immediately. As Timjohn. Sarahconnor.onnor and the Terminator get into the elevator, Milesdysonjoemorton. rate of breathing becomes slower and slower. Finally, it stops, and he drops the part onto the trigger. An enormous explosion erupts from the building, destroying the entire lab.  The elevator comes to an abrupt halt on the first floor. The T1000 arrives on its motorcycle between the burntout car wrecks in front of the Cyberdyne building. The elevator doors open and the Terminator checks the lobby, which is full of the SWAT team members. They fire tear gas grenades to the elevator, which forces Timjohn and Sarahconnor.onnor to buddybreathe with the only remaining gas mask. Terminator tells them to stay there it will be back. It advances towards the SWAT team, ignoring their leader's orders to lie down on the floor. They open fire, the bullets ripping pieces of flesh from its metal body, but they cannot stop its advance. As it closes in on them, it uses its sidearm to shoot the men in the legs it uses the gas grenade launcher to disable the remaining two members. The T1000 drives its motorcycle up one of the staircases of the blownout building. The Terminator exits through the main entrance and fires the remaining gas grenades at the police, disabling the entire force. It relieves two remaining SWAT members of their van , drives it through the main entrance and picks up Timjohn and Sarahconnor. It takes off at high speed as several police officers fire shots at the van. As the T1000 drives through the destroyed lab, it hears the gunshots and sees the SWAT van leaving in the distance. When it notices the helicopter flying near the building, it accelerates, jumps its motorcycle out of the building, and grabs hold of the helicopter as the bike crashes to the ground. The dumbstruck pilot watches the T1000 break the canopy with its head, pour into the cockpit in its amorphous chrome form and instantly resume its previous appearance. It tells the pilot to get out and he jumps. Now in control of the helicopter, the T1000 pursues the van.  In the back of the van, Sarahconnor.onnor buries Timjohn under a pile of bulletproof vests, telling him to stay under them no matter what happens. She also covers the van's back windows with vests, as she notices the helicopter closing in the Terminator tells her it is the T1000. Sarahconnor.onnor and the T1000 exchange automatic weapon fire as the Terminator navigates the highway, narrowly missing several cars. It drives under a bridge, but the helicopter simply follows. They pass a large semi, which forces the T1000 to fly over another bridge. It quickly gains on the van and manages to shoot Sarahconnor.onnor in the leg. The Terminator abruptly stops, causing the helicopter to collide with the back of the van it crumbles and crashes violently onto the road. The crash causes one of the van's tires to rip, and the van topples over on the road. The driver of the large truck has come to a halt at the crashed helicopter, as the driver of a pickup truck comes to check on the tippedover van. The large truck's driver is amazed to see the T1000 appearing unharmed from the wrecked helicopter, but the T1000 simply skewers him with his bladehand and mounts the truck. The Terminator, Timjohn and Sarahconnor.onnor stumble from the SWAT van the pickup truck driver backs away from the Terminator's large facial wounds, as it sees the large truck emerging from the smoke several hundred yards back it reads LIQUID NITROGEN on the side. The three commandeer the pickup truck as the T1000's truck rams a stopped car out of the way in the distance. The Terminator drives away as the T1000 smashes the remains of the SWAT van the pickup driver barely gets out of the way.  Timjohn uses a Tshirt from the truck to slow the bleeding from Sarahconnor.s leg. The Terminator tries to stay ahead of the liquid nitrogen truck, but 60 mph is the pickup truck's top speed. As Sarahconnor.onnor binds her leg and howls in pain, the large truck rams the back of the pickup. The T1000 tries to crush the pickup against the siderail, but another truck coming up ahead forces it to move away. The Terminator tells Timjohn to take the wheel and fires a grenade at the large truck, which takes it slightly off course. The Terminator directs Timjohn to take the off ramp, but the T1000 follows. Timjohn narrowly misses another truck as the Terminator fires another grenade. It hits the truck on the side the truck rams into the pickup from behind again, causing the Terminator to drop a grenade shell. Timjohn drives the truck through the gates of a steel mill, closely followed by the T1000. The Terminator grabs its M16 rifle and climbs onto the hood of the T1000's truck, where it empties the entire clip into the liquid android. Then it turns the wheel quickly to the left, causing the liquid nitrogen truck to topple over and slide behind Timjohn and Sarahconnor. The Terminator holds on to the still moving, tippedover truck as Timjohn drives through a hangarsized steel foundry full of workers.  The pickup truck comes to an abrupt halt when it impales itself on a parked lifttruck, one lifter passing between Timjohn and his mother. As the sliding liquid nitrogen truck comes screeching into the hangar and crashes against one side of the entrance, the Terminator jumps off, rolls himself to safety and comes to a stop against a couple of pipes. The enormous momentum causes the truck to split open in the middle and liquid nitrogen pours from the rupture. As the evaporating nitrogen invades the work area, one of the workers sounds the alarm and all workers instantly evacuate. Timjohn. Sarahconnor. and the Terminator watch the T1000 clambering out of the truck cabin under a pouring rain of liquid nitrogen. As the android appears from the cloud of vapor, it seems to be moving much more sluggishly than usual. A layer of frost covers the creaking T1000 as it attempts to walk, but its frozen feet keep sticking to the floor. Its continuous efforts to walk cause the legs to break off at the ankle and knees. Trying to break its fall with its hand, the T1000 finds the hand frozen to the floor as well. With a violent pull, it breaks free, snapping off its arm to its own astonishment. A few creaking tweaks and turns follow, and it remains motionless. Terminator picks itself up from the floor, points its gun and shoots the frozen android into hundreds of small pieces, saying Hasta la vista, baby.  Timjohn gets out of the truck to watch his broken enemy. However, one of the pools of molten metal in the hangar has begun to overflow, and the heat starts to thaw the frozen pieces of the T1000. The metal becomes liquid again, and the drops start to coalesce into one big blob. The Terminator says there is not much time any more, and Timjohn helps Sarahconnor.onnor get up the liquid metal blob is already shaping into the familiar human form again. The Terminator reloads its grenade launcher with the shell it dropped earlier and helps Timjohn move Sarahconnor. The T1000 regains its cop form. It follows Timjohn. Sarahconnor. and the Terminator on foot as they head deeper into the steel mill.   While holding a yellowandblack striped bar, the T1000 finds that it has been damaged its arm has mimicked the striped pattern of the bar. It pulls the hand loose from the bar, changes it back to normal with a flick and starts following its targets again. The Terminator leads Timjohn and Sarahconnor.onnor through the maze of equipment and machinery in the steel mill.  As the T1000 closes in, there is a glitch going over its surface. Apparently, it has difficulty keeping its current form its feet keep taking on the color and texture of the metal floor.  Timjohn. Sarahconnor. and the Terminator come up at the edge of a molten metal pool, but Sarahconnor.onnor can't stand the heat. They return, but see the T1000 approaching a few yards ahead. The Terminator sends Timjohn and Sarahconnor.onnor on their way, despite Timjohn.s desire to stick together. Sarahconnor.onnor drags Timjohn away while the Terminator readies its gun and grenade launcher. Its internal processing screen searches for the T1000, which suddenly emerges from the side and kicks away the launcher. There is a nasty and violent fight between the two Terminators, in which they pound each other against the metal surfaces around them. The T1000 is thrown head first against a steel wall, but it quickly morphs itself backwards, ready to fight again. The Terminator punches into its head, but its opponent simply liquefies, reforms around the Terminator's fist, launches it against some more walls, and finally forces its arm between two large cogwheels. Out of reach, the T1000 takes on its human texture again and leaves the Terminator stuck in the machinery.  Sarahconnor.onnor and Timjohn take a few steps towards a platform. The Terminator picks up an iron bar and uses it to amputate its arm to free itself. Timjohn and Sarahconnor.onnor see the T1000 already coming up to the platform. Sarahconnor.onnor lowers Timjohn along a chain onto a conveyor belt below, but stays behind herself, despite Timjohn.s desperate calls to come along. Sarahconnor.onnor reloads her shotgun and fires at the T1000's head it leaves a large hole around its right eye, which fills up quickly. It figures out that Timjohn has escaped. Before Sarahconnor.onnor can reload and fire another shot, the T1000 extends one of its fingers and skewers her left shoulder to the wall. It orders Sarahconnor.onnor to call Timjohn. but she refuses. It tortures Sarahconnor.onnor by moving its fingerblade inside her wounded shoulder, threatens to pierce her head with its other finger, and repeats the order, but she still doesn't comply. At that moment, the Terminator takes a slice at the T1000 with the iron bar, almost chopping off its arm and side. But the T1000 kicks the Terminator back, mends its body and simply pulls the bar out. It pounds the Terminator with the bar, throwing the Terminator in front of a large suspended beam. The T1000 uses the beam to crush the Terminator against the wall several times, causing its right eye to come out and exposing its red robotic eye and metal skull. The heavily crushed Terminator attempts to pull itself away with its remaining hand, towards a lower platform where its grenade launcher still rests. But before it can grasp the launcher, the T1000 forces the metal bar into the Terminator's chest. It retracts the bar again, but before the Terminator can make another attempt at the launcher, the T1000 forces the bar all the way through it and the grated floor. Electrical discharges erupt from the metal body as the red dot in the Terminator's eye slowly dies and its body goes limp.  Sarahconnor.onnor grabs her shotgun and reloads with the little remaining strength she has. Timjohn crawls out of the conveyor belt tunnel and hides behind some equipment. The Terminator's mechanical eye seems to come back to life. Its internal processing screen shows that an alternate power route inside the metal body has been found, and the eye becomes fully red. It pulls the iron bar from its body and the floor and grabs the grenade launcher.  In his hiding place, Timjohn hears his mother calling him. He walks several steps and platforms over to her, to find her limping along a wall. She asks for his help, but then another Sarahconnor.onnor appears behind her, armed with a shotgun. She tells Timjohn to get out of the way.  Timjohn looks down to see that Sarahconnor.s feet have seemingly been fused to the grated floor, and realizes it is the T1000 . Timjohn yells shoot and a large metal hole appears in the T1000asSarahconnor.s body. In an instant, the wound closes and the T1000 morphs back into its familiar cop face. Sarahconnor.onnor fires a volley of shots at the T1000, which brings it staggering towards the edge of the platform, above one of the molten metal pools. But as it's one step from falling in, Sarahconnor.s shotgun is empty. The T1000 heals its wounds and Sarahconnor.onnor fires again, but the gun only clicks. The T1000 makes a childish naughtygesture with its finger, then starts advancing on Timjohn and Sarahconnor. They turn around to see the Terminator emerging on a conveyor belt, armed with the grenade launcher. They get down, and the Terminator fires his grenade into the T1000's gut. It gives a look of astonishment before the grenade violently explodes inside its body is completely burst open, the head and arms hanging from mere threads, as it loses its balance and falls screeching into the pool of molten metal. The effect is devastating as Timjohn and Sarahconnor.onnor watch, the T1000 splashes and thrashes in the pool, screaming in agony, uncontrollably morphing through the forms it previously adapted the policeman, Janellevoightjenettegoldstein , Lewisdonstanton, the motorcycle cop. Desperately screaming and fighting, several more heads and arms pop out of its body. It takes the rough shape of a giant openmouthed head that turns insideout, before it finally returns into a terrified face that dissolves in the metal, singling it's death.  Timjohn helps the Terminator up. It looks like a wrecked car and says it needs a vacation. They look at the molten pool and Timjohn asks if the T1000 is dead. The Terminator replies that it is terminated. Timjohn throws the metal arm and the chip in the steel. Sarahconnor.onnor sighs that it is over, but the Terminator reminds her that there is still one more chip which must be destroyed it points at its skull. It hands Sarahconnor.onnor a remote control for one of the electrically operated pulleys, saying that it cannot selfterminate and needs to be lowered in the molten steel. Sarahconnor.onnor looks confused, but Timjohn can't accept this, and pleads with the Terminator to stay with them. When it apologizes and tells him that it has to do it, Timjohn tearfully orders it not to go. The Terminator remains silent for a while, looking Timjohn in the eyes, and tells him it knows now why he cries but it is something it can never do. Timjohn hugs the android, which shakes Sarahconnor.s outstretched hand, then grasps one of the chains. Sarahconnor.onnor activates the pulley, lowering the Terminator into the pool. Its clothes burn as it slowly melts away from below in the hot steel. It looks up to Timjohn. who is in tears. After the hot metal immerses the face, its hand does a final thumbsup before it sinks in the molten metal. There is a last look into its internal processing screen, which goes static, and finally blacks out like a TV screen. Sarahconnor.onnor drops the remote and holds the sobbing Timjohn to her shoulder. The camera flies over the highway at night again as Sarahconnor.onnor speaks The unknown future rolls towards us. I face it for the first time with a sense of hope. Because if a machine, a Terminator, can learn the value of human life, maybe we can too.  Credits roll to the Terminator theme music and You Could Be Mine by Guns 'N Roses.  Special Edition Credits follow.