Nickfurysamuell. Jackson, director of S.H.I.E.L.D. , arrives at S.H.I.E.L.D. headquarters outside of Santa Fe, New Mexico, during an evacuation. The Tesseract, an energy source of unknown potential, has activated. It opens a portal through space and the exiled Norse god Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston steps through, carrying a strange spear with a blue glowing tip. Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston takes the Tesseract and uses the spear to take control of the minds of several SHIELD personnel, including Dr. Erikselvigstellanskarsgrd , and Agent Clinthawkeyebartonjeremyrenner, to aid him in his getaway. SHIELD personnel pull out of their base when an energy surge from the Tesseract causes the ground beneath the base to collapse and destroying it. A short pursuit of Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston fails to capture him.  In response to the attack, Nickfury issues a state of emergency, telling his top agents Philcoulsonclarkgregg, Natasharomanoffscarlettjohansson, and Mariahillcobiesmulders, that they are completely out of options. Fury pulls Natasharomanoffscarlettjohansson and Philcoulsonclarkgregg out of their respective assignments and sends them to find the heroes he needs to oppose Lokitomhiddleston. Natasharomanoffscarlettjohansson is found in Eastern Europe interrogating suspects, and Philcoulsonclarkgregg pulls her off the assignment and sends her to find the big guy Brucebannermarkruffalo.arkruffalo Mark Ruffalo, aka The Incredible Hulk. Banner has been living in exile in India working for a hospital in Calcutta helping sick people, and has found inner peace doing so. Natasharomanoffscarlettjohansson tells Banner about the Tesseract and its' destructive capabilities. As the world's expert on gamma rays, Banner is their best chance to find the cube's location.  During a video chat with the World Security Council, the superiors who run S.H.I.E.L.D., Fury is grilled about his plan to bring about the Avengers Initiative. The WSC are furious, saying that it's the wrong thing to do and these people will never work together as a group. Fury says they have no other option and this is their only hope of defeating Lokitomhiddleston. The superiors reluctantly agree.  Steverogers, Chrisevans on the other hand, is relatively easy to find. S.H.I.E.L.D. has been keeping tabs on him since he was found in the ice and still alive. Fury goes to greet Rogers at his gymnasium where he finds he doesn't sleep. Fury tells Rogers that he will find a briefing packet about what's going on back at his apartment. Tonystarkrobertdowneyjr.tark Robertdowneyjr. is seen in a new Iron Man armor that has underwater capabilities. He is installing a new electrical connection that will take his office building completely off the electrical grid allowing it to become self sustaining. He's greeted at his office by Pepperpottsgwynethpaltrow who tells him that it's date night. Tonystarkrobertdowneyjr.tark wants Pepper to know how it feels to be a genius and after an argument about how much credit she should get for coming up with the Stark Tower idea, date night is off. Philcoulsonclarkgregg arrives, and Tonystarkrobertdowneyjr.tark quickly and repeatedly tries to cut him off. Philcoulsonclarkgregg hands Tonystarkrobertdowneyjr.tark a laptop with all the data on it about everything that's going on. Pepper decides instead to go to Washington DC to get the zoning permits for the next two buildings for Stark Tower as it seems Tonystarkrobertdowneyjr.tark has homework to do, and a lot of it.  On the airplane to the secured location  an aircraft carrier that can convert to a flying aircraft carrier, Philcoulsonclarkgregg is telling Rogers about how it's such an honor that they found him and tells him about his Captain America trading card collection. They then head to the helicarrier and Rogers is introduced to Dr. Brucebannermarkruffalo. The two then wonder what kind of ride they're in for. Rogers thinks it's a submarine but the last thing Dr. Banner should be riding in is a submerged, pressurized metal container. The carrier takes off. On board, they are briefed that Dr. Selvig and Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston have been traced to Stuttgart, Germany.  Rogers' first assignment is to go to Stuttgart to arrest Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston and bring him on board the helicarrier. Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston is at a formal black tie gala at an art museum where he is kidnapping a doctor who harbors the element they need to make the Tesseract work. While Dr. Selvig creates a distraction and Hawkeye kills the men guarding the building, Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston carries out his plan. Outside, he is instructing the civilians present that they need to kneel before him  or else, and that freedom is life's great lie. He's then confronted by Rogers in Captain America regalia, and later Tonystarkrobertdowneyjr.tark makes his entrance to the tune of ACDC's Shoot To Kill with full Iron Man weapons drawn and daring Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston to make a move.  Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston quickly surrenders when the two heroes arrive, and while being flown to the high tech prison on board the helicarrier, the plane encounters a lighting storm. Rogers asks Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston if he's afraid of lighting but Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston tells him it's not the lightning that he's afraid of. It's what follows. Thorchrishemsworth, Lokitomhiddleston.s halfbrother and the Norse God of thunder, arrives and attempts to capture Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston so Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston can face Asguardian justice for his crimes , but Thorchrishemsworth gets into a fight with Rogers and Tonystarkrobertdowneyjr. The fight ends in a stalemate. Eventually, Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston is taken to the helicarrier and placed in a glass cell designed to hold the Hulk. Fury explains that if Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston attempts to escape, even by merely cracking the glass, a shaft will open below him and he'll plummet to Earth and possibly be killed.  On board the aircraft carrier, the fully assembled Avengers squad is being briefed by Fury about what they think will possibly happen next. Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston is in prison and is interrogated by Agent Natasharomanoffscarlettjohansson. Tonystarkrobertdowneyjr.tark arrives and it seems the only one of the group he really gets along with is Brucebannermarkruffalo. While conducting experiments on Lokitomhiddleston.s scepter, Stark tries to get a rise out of Banner so he can witness Banner's famous party trick . Banner flinches and then begins telling about how he's been unable to fully harness his abilities and that he suffered depression after the accident. That's why he moved to Calcutta, as helping people is what gives his life meaning.  The Avengers, now brought together, argue and deliberate over how to approach Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston and the revelation that SHIELD plans to harness the Tesseract's power to develop weapons, a discovery made by Rogers. Fury admits that the events in New Mexico a year before Thorchrishemsworth made SHIELD aware of other races on other worlds, some of whom may see Earth as an easy target. Thorchrishemsworth is seen asking agent Philcoulsonclarkgregg about what happened to Janefoster. Philcoulsonclarkgregg tells him that S.H.I.E.L.D. has placed her in their witness protection program and that she's in a safe zone in London.  The decision was made to produce weapons with the Tesseract as a means of deterrence. As the group argues, Clintbarton and Lokitomhiddleston.s possessed agents attack the helicarrier, disabling one of its engines in flight. While Stark and Rogers attempt to restart the damaged engine, Natasharomanoffscarlettjohansson tries to prevent Dr. Banner from turning into the Hulk and destroying the ship from inside. Her attempt fails and she's chased through the ship until Thorchrishemsworth takes up the battle to pacify the beast and manages to fell him briefly with a hit from his hammer, Mjolnir. While fighting Clintbarton, Natasharomanoffscarlettjohansson slams him into a guard rail, and the blow to the head breaks Lokitomhiddleston.s mind control. After the Hulk falls from the ship, Thorchrishemsworth is tricked into Lokitomhiddleston.s holding cell by Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston himself, who has recovered his scepter and releases the cell and allows Thorchrishemsworth to plummet. Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston is held at bay briefly by Agent Philcoulsonclarkgregg but is also tricked by one of Lokitomhiddleston.s holographic projections  Philcoulsonclarkgregg is stabbed in the back by the real Lokitomhiddleston. Philcoulsonclarkgregg later shoots Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston with a blast from an unidentified weapon, one that harnesses the power of the Destroyer. Philcoulsonclarkgregg dies while Fury tries to save his life. Thorchrishemsworth escapes from the cell a split second before it hits the ground. Banner wakes up in his human form after crashing into an abandoned factory.  Fury uses Philcoulsonclarkgregg's apparent death to motivate the Avengers to work as a team. Stark and Rogers realize that simply defeating them will not be enough for Lokitomhiddleston. He needs to overpower them in a very public way so as to validate himself as ruler of Earth. Using a device built by Dr. Selvig, Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston opens a portal to the Chitauri home world over Manhattan, summoning a Chitauri invasion. Once again the group's petty differences overshadow their ability to communicate as a team, especially with Banner now missing. While in an argument with Rogers, Tonystarkrobertdowneyjr.tark finally figures out that Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston is a full tilt diva, and that he's obviously set up shop at the top of Stark's office.  Natasharomanoffscarlettjohansson, unfortunately arrives too late just as Dr. Selvig has opened the portal. This unleashes Lokitomhiddleston.s army and all hell breaks loose. The army is massive and they can't all fight them off as much as they are entering the earth's atmosphere. Tonystarkrobertdowneyjr.tark thankfully shows up, as does Brucebannermarkruffalo. While fighting, Rogers dispatches NYPD cops to direct citizens into the underground tunnels and sewers. Meanwhile, the Hulk smashes, and Tonystarkrobertdowneyjr.tark arrives at Stark Tower where he attempts to stall Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston with a drink which is used to threaten and intimidate him. As that's going on, Tonystarkrobertdowneyjr.tark has JARVIS prepare an under development version of Iron Man called MK18 which is contained in a giant box coded specifically for Tonystarkrobertdowneyjr.tark and has advanced weapons capabilities. Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston refuses to cooperate, saying the destruction will continue as long as the citizens of earth don't get that they need to be ruled by him. Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston attempts to take control of Stark by using his scepter on his heart to control his mind, but it fails thanks to Tonystarkrobertdowneyjr.s somewhat trusty Arc Reactor that keeps him alive.  The Avengers rally in defense of New York, but quickly come to the conclusion that they will be overwhelmed as wave after wave of Chitauri descend upon Earth. With help from the reformed Clintbarton, Rogers and Thorchrishemsworth evacuate civilians while Dr. Banner transforms into the Hulk and goes after Lokitomhiddleston. beating him into submission in Tonystarkrobertdowneyjr.tark's penthouse. Natasharomanoffscarlettjohansson makes her way, with a little help from the Chitauri, to the device that holds the portal open  and hits Dr. Selvig over the head, freeing him of Lokitomhiddleston.s control. Dr. Selvig reveals that Lokitomhiddleston.s staff can be used to close the portal.  As that's happening, Hulk confronts Lokitomhiddleston. who refuses to be intimidated by such a beast. As Rogers instructed, Hulk smashes Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston into near oblivion. That allows Natasharomanoffscarlettjohansson to grab the scepter and head to the roof to shut down the portal. While Natasharomanoffscarlettjohansson is securing the portal, Stark is securing the perimeter. Meanwhile, with Fury on a conference call to the council, Fury berates the council's decision to launch a nuclear missile at Manhattan. Fury tries everything possible to stop the council from launching nukes, even destroying two jets that are taking off from the helicarrier. Unfortunately as he's about to fire on a third, it gets away and launches a nuclear weapon.  Tonystarkrobertdowneyjr.tark intercepts the missile and he knows exactly where to put it  he flies it into the portal. While in the portal, Stark instructs JARVIS to try Pepper one last time. Unfortunately the call fails as Pepper is on a plane and glued to the TV with other Stark Industries executives. Tonystarkrobertdowneyjr.tark launches the nuke at the Chitauri mothership, completely destroying the invasion. All the invading aliens collapse and are rendered useless. Stark sees the nuke go just as he runs out of oxygen and falls to what appears to be certain doom. Thankfully he manages to escape the portal just as Natasharomanoffscarlettjohansson is able to successfully close it. Once back in the atmosphere it looks like Tonystarkrobertdowneyjr.tark isn't going to make it, but is saved by the Hulk thanks to incredible timing. A dazed Stark, awakened by the Hulk's roar, offers to take the team out for shawarma, but they decide to apprehend Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston first. The Avengers go their separate ways. Natasharomanoffscarlettjohansson. Rogers, and Hawkeye return to working for S.H.I.E.L.D., Tonystarkrobertdowneyjr.tark and Pepper are seen rebuilding Stark Tower and are working on the next phase of the project. Thorchrishemsworth escorts Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston and the Tesseract back to Asgard where Lokitomhiddleston.omhiddleston will stand multiple trials for war crimes from both Asgard and the Chitauri. Meanwhile, multiple TV news reports recap the events surrounding the Avengers, and while they've become worldwide heroes for to some for their efforts in New York, others are fearful and want to know who will take responsibility for the devastation.  On another video conference call with the World Security Council, Fury is being congratulated, but they also grill him that now their secret's out, this group is too dangerous for the world to handle. And Fury is glad  what happened in New York is a warning. A warning to all galaxies that if they try to attack earth, S.H.I.E.L.D. is there to defend it. And they have just the team. Fury also tells the S.H.I.E.L.D. board that the Avengers' whereabouts are no longer being tracked. They've earned a leave of absence, but will be called back when needed. He also tells the council that the Tesseract is where no one on earth will ever be able to find it.  In a midcredits scene, the Chitauri leader the Other tells his master that it is futile to attack Earth, as fighting the Avengers is like courting death. His master turns, revealing himself to be Thanos.  After further credits, the Avengers are shown eating together in a shawarma joint the team looks worn out and no one speaks.