Having been wounded by a gunshot from the Russian assassin Kirill, Jasonbourne evades Moscow police and goes into hiding. Six weeks later, he goes to Paris to inform Martinkreutz of the death of his sister Marie, who had been Jasonbourne.s girlfriend. The Guardian correspondent Simonross meets with an unidentifed person to discuss Jasonbourne and Operation Treadstone, which is the beginning phase of Jasonbourne.s past. The CIA begin tracking Simonross after he mentions Operation Blackbriar over a cell phone call. Jasonbourne learns of Simonross's investigation of Treadstone and they secretly meet at Waterloo Station. Jasonbourne realizes that the CIA is tracking Simonross and helps him evade capture, but Simonross deviates from Jasonbourne.s instructions and is killed by Blackbriar assassin Paz, on orders from Blackbriar's director Noahvosen.  Pamelalandy, who had been assigned to hunt Jasonbourne six weeks earlier, but was unsuccessful, is brought in to help Noahvosen. They search Simonross's notes and find that Simonross's source was Nealdaniels, the CIA station chief in Madrid, who was formerly involved in Treadstone and is involved in Blackbriar as well. Jasonbourne makes his way to Nealdaniels. Madrid office, but finds it empty. After Jasonbourne incapacitates a CIA team sent by Noahvosen and Pamelalandy. Nickyparsons, a former Treadstone support technician arrives. She decides to help Jasonbourne and tells him that Nealdaniels has fled to Tangier.  Upon arriving in Tangier, Nickyparsons tries to track Nealdaniels. location but is unable to, finding that Blackbriar asset Deshbouksani has been tasked with killing Nealdaniels. Noahvosen learns that Nickyparsons logged in to access information about Nealdaniels and sends Deshbouksani after Nickyparsons and Jasonbourne. a decision Pamelalandy disagrees with. Jasonbourne follows Deshbouksani to Nealdaniels. but fails to prevent Nealdaniels. death by a planted bomb. Jasonbourne manages to kill Deshbouksani before he can kill Nickyparsons, and subsequently sends Nickyparsons into hiding. Jasonbourne examines the contents of Nealdaniels. charred briefcase and finds the address of the deep cover CIA bureau in New York City where Noahvosen directs Blackbriar. Jasonbourne travels to New York City. Pamelalandy receives a phone call from Jasonbourne , which is revealed to be tapped by Noahvosen. Pamelalandy thanks Jasonbourne for the tape he sent her which revealed the corrupt dealings of former Treadstone director Wardabbott she also tells him that his real name is Davidwebb and his birthdate is 41571. Jasonbourne tells Pamelalandy to get some rest because she looks tired, which she and Noahvosen both understand to mean that Jasonbourne is watching her. Noahvosen intercepts a text to Pamelalandy from Jasonbourne of a location to meet up and leaves his office with a team to follow Pamelalandy and capture Jasonbourne. Jasonbourne breaks into Noahvosen.s office and steals classified Blackbriar documents. Noahvosen. who realises that the meeting was only a diversion, sends Paz after Jasonbourne. the two finally encountering each other in a car chase which ends with Paz forcing Jasonbourne.s car to crash into a concrete barrier. Jasonbourne gets out and holds Paz at gunpoint before sparing his life and continuing on to 415 East 71st Street, memories of which were triggered by the false birthday he was given by Pamelalandy. Noahvosen also figures out Pamelalandy.s code and warns Dr. Alberthirsch, who ran Treadstone's behavior modification program, that Jasonbourne is coming.  Pamelalandy meets Jasonbourne at the building, where Jasonbourne gives her the Blackbriar files before going inside. Noahvosen arrives in minutes and starts searching for Pamelalandy. afraid that she might release the classifed information only to find her faxing the files to an unknown receiver just as the last page is being sent. Jasonbourne encounters Alberthirsch in an upper level and, with Alberthirsch's help, remembers that he volunteered for Treadstone. He then states that he is no longer Jasonbourne and flees to the roof from Noahvosen.s pursuing CIA team. Jasonbourne is confronted on the roof by Paz, who asks Jasonbourne why he did not kill him. Jasonbourne asks Paz if he even knows why he is supposed to kill him and repeats the dying words of The Professora Treadstone assassin Jasonbourne had killed years earlierLook at us. Look at what they make you give. Paz lowers his gun as Jasonbourne runs to jump off the roof, but Noahvosen appears and shoots at Jasonbourne as he leaps into the East River below. Some time later, Nickyparsons watches a television news broadcast about the exposure of Operation Blackbriar, the arrests of Alberthirsch and Noahvosen. a criminal investigation of CIA director Ezrakramer, and Davidwebb, a.k.a. Jasonbourne, who was reportedly shot and fell into the East River. Upon hearing that his body has not been found after a threeday search, Nickyparsons is seen giving a wide grin. Jasonbourne is shown floating in the water for some time and then swimming away underwater after his fall.