Commissioner Jamesgordongaryoldman is delivering a eulogy for Harveydent at the end of  The Dark Knight I knew Harveydent. I was his friend. And it will be a very long time before someone. inspires us the way he did. I believed in Harveydent.  Eight years later, a van is driving across a field, occupied by Russian soldiers. They are transporting a nuclear scientist, Dr. Leonidpavelalonaboutboul. Sitting in the backseats are three prisoners, who are handcuffed, have hoods over their heads, and rifles trained on them. The van arrives at an airfield, where it meets a jet occupied by a CIA agent, Billwilson, Aidangillen and U.S. Special Ops soldiers from an extraction team, whom Dr. Leonidpavelalonaboutboul has cut a deal with. The CIA agent refuses to let the hooded prisoners come on his aircraft. The agent is told by the truck driver, Barsadjoshstewart, that they are mercenaries who work for the masked man. He takes it that the masked man is Bane, an infamous terrorist, and brings them on board.  During the flight, Billwilson interrogates the prisoners for information about Bane. He has one prisoner dragged to the cargo door and demands to know who paid the men to kidnap Dr. Leonidpavelalonaboutboul. When the man refuses to talk, Billwilson pulls his pistol and fires a shot away from the man's head and pulls the man back inside. The second prisoner is pulled over to the door and given the same treatment. This time, Billwilson asks him about the mask that Bane wears. The man fails to talk leading Billwilson to believe he's awfully loyal for a hired gun.  At this point, the third prisoner  who sounds like he is talking through a voice amplifier suggests that his comrade is wondering why would someone shoot a man  before throwing him out of a plane Billwilson signals for one soldier to seal the door and asks this prisoner for his name. The hooded man says that it doesn't matter who he and his comrades are, but it's their plan that matters. As the man admits that no one cared who I was 'til I put on the mask, Billwilson removes his hood, revealing a bald, muscular brute wearing an intimidating breathing apparatus over his mouth  Bane Tomhardy.  Billwilson asks Bane if he will die if he takes off the mask, and Bane assures him it would be extremely painful.for Billwilson. Billwilson congratulates Bane for getting himself caught, and asks him what the next step of his master plan is. Bane boldly announces it crashing the very plane they are on right now with no survivors  On cue, a team of henchmen fastrope out of a C130 Hercules that has descended over the jet, land on the small plane's wings, and shoot out the side windows with guns, while Bane breaks his handcuffs and punches Billwilson. The henchmen attach cables to the plane with hooks behind the wings, and plant bombs in the fuselage. As the plane begins to nosedive, the stress tears the wings off. Two henchmen then climb up and set off charges to blow off the tail section. One soldier draws his pistol and manages to get off one round before he is shot dead by a mercenary descending into the plane. The mercenaries also lower in a body bag containing the corpse of a man who looks like Dr. Leonidpavelalonaboutboul.  Bane grabs Dr. Leonidpavelalonaboutboul. and pulls out a small tube with needles on both ends. He inserts one end into Dr. Leonidpavelalonaboutboul.s arm and the other into the corpse, and starts to perform a blood transfer. Bane spots one of his comrades escaping and orders the man to stop, as the authorities expect to find one of them in the wreckage. The man asks Bane if they've started a fire, and Bane says, Yes, the fire rises. Bane attaches the harness to himself and Dr. Leonidpavelalonaboutboul. and tells the doctor that the time to panic will come later. He sets off a detonator, which releases the fuselage to plummet to Earth. Bane and Dr. Leonidpavelalonaboutboul are then reeled up into the bigger plane.  In Gotham, the eighth anniversary of Harveydent's death is being celebrated as Dent Day. At a Waynemanor charity event hosted by the foreverabsent Brucein.ayne Christian Bale, Jamesgordongaryoldman prepares to deliver a speech revealing the truth about Dent and the murders for which the Batman had taken the fall 8 years ago followed by his own resignation as commissioner, but deciding that the time is not right, and having flashbacks of Dent holding his son hostage, he stuffs the speech into his jacket. His Deputy Commissioner Peterfoleymatthewmodine talks with the city's congressman Byrongillybrettcullen, who informs him that with the drop in crime, Jamesgordongaryoldman is a war hero in peacetime, and the mayor plans on dumping him in the spring. Mirandatatemarioncotillard Marion Cotillard, a wealthy investor, and businessman Johndaggettbenmendelsohn try to meet the reclusive Brucein.n to get him to invest in her clean energy project, but are unable to meet him. Johndaggettbenmendelsohn is curious why Mirandatatemarioncotillard is interested in seeing a guy who threw away her investment, but Mirandatatemarioncotillard chides him for only understanding money and the power he thinks it buys.  One of the maids for the event is Selinakyle.yleannehathaway, a young cat burglar, who breaks into Brucein.s room on the pretense of delivering dinner. She cracks his safe, stealing his mother's pearl necklace, which has a tracking device built into it. She starts looking around the place, observing a photo of Brucein.s parents. As she notices a target with several arrows embedded in it, Brucein.n comes in, hobbling on a cane, and announces himself by shooting another arrow into the bullseye, causing Selinakyle.yle to jump. She tries to apologize, and comments that Brucein.n doesn't look anything like the rumors make him out to be. Brucein.n immediately notices the necklace and outs her as a thief. Caught, Selinakyle.s tone and attitude change. She points out that Brucein.n wouldn't beat up a woman so much as she would beat up a cripple of course exceptions have to be made. She kicks his cane out from under him, spilling him to the floor, then escapes by doing a backflip out of a window. She changes out of her disguise as she makes her way to the Congressman's car and asks for a ride.  Alfredmichaelcaine.ichaelcaine comes up to Brucein.s room and finds Brucein.n looking at the breached safe. Learning that the intruder was one of the maids, he dryly suggests that Brucein.n stop letting maids into this part of the house. Brucein.n has found print dust and realizes that Selinakyle.yle also took a copy of his fingerprints.  Later that night, Jamesgordongaryoldman looks through some files on the police station's roof, next to the destroyed Batsignal, when he is approached by rookie police officer Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt, who informs him about the Congressman's disappearance. Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt reveals that he has suspicions about Dent's death and the last confirmed Batman sighting, but Jamesgordongaryoldman dismisses him, takes one look at the Batsignal, and departs.  The next morning, Alfredmichaelcaine.ichaelcaine finds Brucein.n working on the computers in the Batcave. The prints their jewel thief was using were not her own, but rather those of a male armedrobbery suspect. Brucein.n notes that by using the pearls' tracking device, he was able to get their thief's address and crossreference it with police information to produce Selinakyle.s name. Selinakyle.yle is a master jewel thief nicknamed as the Cat. She's been arrested a few times for various crimes like assault, resisting arrest, even breaking out of a women's correctional facility when she just sixteen years old. Alfredmichaelcaine.ichaelcaine suggests that Brucein.n go out with Selinakyle. and move on from the grief he's had over Rachel's death eight years ago.  Alfredmichaelcaine.ichaelcaine surprises Brucein.n when informing him that during the seven years before Brucein.n returned to Gotham to become Batman, Alfredmichaelcaine.ichaelcaine hoped that Brucein.n would never return. He tells Brucein.n that he wished that while in a cafe during his yearly vacation Florence, Italy after Brucein.n had disappeared, he would see Brucein.n happily with a woman, married, having a normal life. They would silently acknowledge each other.  Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt and his partner Officer Tylerrossreggielee show up at a sewage treatment plant, where a dead body has washed up out of one of the tunnels. Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt recognizes the body as that of a kid staying at St. Swithin's orphanage. Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt has a very close relationship with the orphanage and with Fatherreillychrisellis, the warden, and we realize that he grew up in that orphanage, which had been funded by the Brucewayne Foundation until recently. One of the kids at the orphanage informs him that the sewers provide good employment, which makes Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt suspicious.  A few nights later, Selinakyle.yle walks into a bar with a drunk man. She seats him at the counter, then walks over to another table and meets with Philipstryverburngorman, Johndaggettbenmendelsohn.s assistant CEO. She hands him a slide that contains four of Brucein.s right hand fingerprints. When Selinakyle.yle asks if Philipstryverburngorman has something in return for her, he signals for one of his men to lock the door. Selinakyle.yle smiles, and admits that although she doesn't want to know what Philipstryverburngorman is planning to use Brucein.s prints for, she knows he'll need a thumbprint as well. Philipstryverburngorman has another hoodlum put a pistol to Selinakyle.s head to threaten her. She hesitates for a moment, but hands her cell phone to Philipstryverburngorman and tells him to hit the send button.  There is a knock at the door, and Selinakyle.s friend, a young woman named Jenjunotemple, comes in. She enters and notices that the place seems a little quiet, but Selinakyle.yle assures her that the place will liven up in a few minutes, and Jenjunotemple leaves.  Selinakyle.yle then hands Philipstryverburngorman another envelope containing the thumbprint slide. He draws his pistol, prepared to shoot her, and informs Selinakyle.yle that, even in the black dress she's decided to wear tonight, she will not be missed by anyone. Unfortunately for Philipstryverburngorman, Selinakyle.yle reveals that she has anticipated this, for she says that while that might be true about her, the cops are missing her friend, the drunk, who is, in fact, the missing congressman, and Philipstryverburngorman has just accidentally used the congressman's cell phone to send a message to the police.  Suddenly, the room is filled with the sound of police cars screeching to a halt outside. Immediately, the thugs draw their pistols and Selinakyle.yle attacks them, disarming one thug. Outside, a SWAT team advances up to the front doors with submachine guns drawn. Selinakyle.yle wrestles with Philipstryverburngorman and drags him over the table, knocking him out, while other henchmen escape out through the kitchen. Just then, the SWAT officers begin swinging a battering ram at the locked front doors. With seconds to act, Selinakyle.yle grabs Philipstryverburngorman's pistol, inserts a fresh magazine, and shoots one henchman, killing him instantly. Selinakyle.istolpunchesstryver, then shoots another thug as he tries to draw his weapon.  The SWAT team breaches the doors, shooting a third henchman as they enter. Selinakyle.yle promptly screams hysterically, pretending to be a frightened hostage. The SWAT officers chase the thugs into the kitchen and out the back door, where the hoodlums open fire on them and a shootout ensues. Amidst the echoes of gunfire, Selinakyle.yle walks over to the congressman, who has taken a bullet in the leg, tells him to apply pressure to his wound, then saunters out the front door, where she immediately runs into Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt, to whom she passes herself off as a bystander.  While Selinakyle.yle escapes, Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt makes his way through the bar with his pistol. He heads out back to the alleyway to provide support to the SWAT officers, who have been pinned down behind a parked truck. As they break cover and prepare to fire their guns at the henchmen, Barsadjoshstewart, stationed on a fire escape, shoots three of them in the back with a sniper rifle. The remaining henchmen sprint for safety, and as they disappear around another corner, Jamesgordongaryoldman and Peterfoleymatthewmodine arrive with backup. They enter the alley the henchmen fled into, but find that the men have vanished. While a few officers head up a stairwell to look for the henchmen there, Jamesgordongaryoldman spots a displaced manhole and takes three SWAT officers with him to search the tunnel.  The four men climb down the ladder into the sewers in pursuit. As they are searching the tunnel, thugs ambush and open fire on them. A bomb goes off, taking out Jamesgordongaryoldman.s backup and shooting a fireball out of the open manhole. Peterfoleymatthewmodine mistakes the blast for a gas explosion, but Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt realizes where Jamesgordongaryoldman might turn up and quickly runs to his car.  As Jamesgordongaryoldman starts further into the tunnel with his flashlight and pistol drawn, and no backup to help him, two of Bane's men corner him from behind and knock him out. They grab him by his arms, and drag him, still semiconscious, through a labyrinth of tunnels. As Jamesgordongaryoldman is dragged deeper in, he notices men with assault rifles and submachine guns overseeing teams of hoodlums doing construction on the walls. The two henchmen bring Jamesgordongaryoldman to an cavern with a waterfall, where they deposit him in front of a shirtless Bane.  Bane asks the two henchmen why they thought to bring Jamesgordongaryoldman down here. When the first one says he and his comrade didn't know what to do, Bane tells them that they've failed in their duties, and their weakness has cost the lives of three people. He immediately the first guy's neck, then tells the other he will kill him after he searches Jamesgordongaryoldman.s jacket. The second thug empties Jamesgordongaryoldman.s pockets, taking Jamesgordongaryoldman.s badge, wallet, pistol, and Jamesgordongaryoldman.s speech about Harveydent. Bane looks over Jamesgordongaryoldman.s speech, deciding that it is useful to his plans.  Jamesgordongaryoldman sees that his captors are occupied, and when Bane has his back turned, he rolls off the platform into a waterway. Bane's men open fire on Jamesgordongaryoldman as he floats away, hitting him several times. Barsadjoshstewart hands Bane a tracking device, which he places on the second thug. He then shoots him dead with Jamesgordongaryoldman.s pistol and throws his body into the waterway.  Outside the tunnels, Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt jumps out of his car near the sewer outlet, and rushes to the exit grate, where he finds Jamesgordongaryoldman. soaked and barely clinging onto life.  After rushing Jamesgordongaryoldman to the hospital, Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt goes to Waynemanor to inform Brucein.n of the shooting, the reason being that he's figured out himself that Brucein.n is Batman. He explains to Brucein.n that when he was five years old, his mother died in a car accident, and a few years later, his father was shot dead in a gambling dispute. He's figured out Brucein.s identity from the fact that while growing up as an orphan, Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt learned to smile in the mirror to hide his anger. None of Jamesgordongaryoldman.s own cops, not even Peterfoleymatthewmodine. believe Jamesgordongaryoldman.s babbling about an underground army, and Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt makes a plea for Brucein.n to return as Batman to stop Bane.  As Brucein.n watches Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt drive off, he asks Alfredmichaelcaine.ichaelcaine about Bane. Alfredmichaelcaine.ichaelcaine mentions that Bane is a mercenary and it is known that he and his men carried out a coup in a West African country that secured diamond mining operations for Johndaggettbenmendelsohn. Brucein.n asks Alfredmichaelcaine.ichaelcaine why his foundation stopped funding Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt's orphanage, and Alfredmichaelcaine.ichaelcaine reveals that the Brucewayne Foundation is funded by Brucewayne Enterprises profits. Figuring it's time to talk to Luciusfoxmorganfreeman, Brucein.n asks Alfredmichaelcaine.ichaelcaine for a car and for an appointment at Jamesgordongaryoldman.s hospital for an examination on his leg. He is then seen pulling out of the driveway in his Lamborghini.  The orthopedist at the hospital tells Brucein.n that the cartilage in his left knee is gone and combined with the other damage to his body, he cannot recommend that Brucein.n go heliskiing. As soon as the doctor leaves the room, Brucein.n dons a ski mask and fastropes down to Jamesgordongaryoldman.s hospital room. He finds Jamesgordongaryoldman hooked up to multiple machines. Though barely able to talk, Jamesgordongaryoldman insists that Batman must return to stop Bane.  Brucein.n next tracks down Selinakyle.yle to her apartment in a rundown neighborhood, using the tracking device planted in his mother's necklace. Inside, Selinakyle.yle has put on the necklace and is preparing to go out for a night on the town when she hears a commotion in the hallway. Jenjunotemple is being threatened by a yuppie she has pickpocketed. Selinakyle.yle defuses the situation by twisting the guy's hand and forcing him against the wall, in the process stealing his watch. Brucein.n then watches as she emerges and climbs into a cab, and follows her.  Brucein.n ends up tailing Selinakyle.yle to a gala costume ball. As he leaves his car with the valet, the paparazzi recognize him and start to snap photos of him, but Brucein.n uses a remote in his pocket that shuts down everyone's cameras, then is waved through by the greeter. Inside, Brucein.n watches Selinakyle.yle as she is dancing with an older man. She is wearing a domino mask and a headband with a set of cat ears. As he watches her, he is approached by Mirandatatemarioncotillard, the party organizer. She is astonished to see him, since Brucein.n rarely ever came to charity events even before he retired from his role as Batman. They make some smalltalk about the Brucewayne Enterprises energy project, and then Mirandatatemarioncotillard departs, leaving Brucein.n free to track down Selinakyle.  Brucein.n cuts in with Selinakyle.s dancing partner as the next routine begins. She is annoyed that he came. As they slowly waltz, Selinakyle.yle reveals her desire to get a fresh start, and claims she wants to see the rich lose and the city burn. Brucein.n tells her that all of her assumptions of him are wrong. Selinakyle.yle tells him that there's a storm coming, having some knowledge of Bane's plans, and that she's adaptable. Although he admits that his mother's necklace looks better on Selinakyle.yle than locked in a safe, he doesn't believe she deserves it, and he removes them from her neck. Selinakyle.yle responds to this by suddenly planting a passionate kiss on him, in the process pickpocketing his valet ticket, and then leaves. Brucein.n then finds out the hard way that she has stolen his car by pretending to be his wife.  Brucein.n goes to his company offices the next day to meet with Luciusfoxmorganfreeman, who assures him that his majority ownership of Brucewayne Enterprises keeps Johndaggettbenmendelsohn from taking over the company despite him blowing the RampD department's budget on the mothballed nuclear project. He takes Brucein.n down to the RampD department and shows him a new toy  a sleek flying aircraft. It is a U.S. army project designed for urban combat, with rotors that make it capable of navigating between buildings without recirculation. The project, which has a long project designation, is one that Luciusfoxmorganfreeman simply nicknames the Bat, and that yes, it  does come in black. The Bat currently works fine, although Luciusfoxmorganfreeman warns that the broken autopilot could be repaired with someone of Brucein.s intellect.  To get back into physical shape, Brucein.n straps on motorized leg braces and does basic martial arts in the Batcave. Alfredmichaelcaine.ichaelcaine walks in while Brucein.n is practicing a roundhouse kick, and tells Brucein.n that he needs to know about rumors that surround Bane. Supposedly, Bane escaped from a middleeastern prison known for brutality and simply called the Pits of Hell. Bane then became a member of the League of Shadows, and was trained by Rachel's alGhul. Bane was excommunicated from the group for extreme behavior beyond the boundaries of the League. Alfredmichaelcaine.ichaelcaine warns Brucein.n that anyone too extreme for the likes of Rachel's alGhul is not to be trifled with. He believes Brucein.n has a death wish to go back to being Batman.  That evening, Bane and three of his men carry out an assault and robbery on the Gotham Stock Exchange. One henchman, McGarrity, Daviddayanfisher enters the building by posing as a shoeshiner, working at a stand by an entrance to the trading floor, stashing a submachine gun in his gym bag. A second unnamed henchman Massifurlan enters disguised as a janitor, and pretends to mop the floor in the front stairwell, hiding a submachine gun in his water bucket. A third henchman, Petrov, sneaks onto the trading floor by posing as a sandwich delivery man.  Prior to closing time, McGarrity and the janitor drop what they are doing, wait until there is no one around to see them, then draw their weapons and make their way to the trading floor. At the same time, Bane arrives at the rear entrance disguised as a deliveryman, and wearing a motorcycle helmet to hide his face. When he walks through the metal detector, an alarm goes off. A female security guard stops Bane and orders him to take off his helmet so their cameras can see his face. He removes his helmet, revealing his gas mask. Before the guards can react, Bane lashes out with lethal blows, punching the female guard with his helmet. He knocks out a second guard. A third guard tries to draw his gun, but Bane twists his gun hand, punches him in the crotch with his other hand, shoots a fourth guard, and lastly fracture's the third guard's skull.  Upstairs, as McGarrity and the janitor walk into the trading floor, Petrov suddenly draws a pistol from a paper bag, whips his customer over the shoulder with the barrel, and shoots a nearby trader. McGarrity and the janitor raise their submachine guns and open fire, sending traders diving for cover. The three henchmen cease shooting as Bane strides onto the floor. He looks around, and notices a trader who we just saw getting his shoes shined by McGarrity moments earlier. As the trader protests that there is no money for Bane to steal, Bane drags the man by his necktie over to another terminal, and slams his head against the table, knocking him out. McGarrity pulls a laptop out of his bag and uses a USB cable to hook it into the computer terminal. Bane uses the trader's security card to log in to the system, and a series of trades begin running across the screen.  The police, including Peterfoleymatthewmodine and several SWAT teams, arrive outside the exchange in full force. The security chief at the exchange is worried as Bane has access to everyone's financial assets. Peterfoleymatthewmodine refuses to risk endangering hostages. He orders the fiber line and cell tower shut down in an attempt to stall Bane. Inside, Bane is not alarmed when McGarrity reports this to him.  While Peterfoleymatthewmodine is dealing with the stock exchange's security chief, Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt arrives, climbs out of his car, and notices a cement mixer truck parked on the nearby corner, obstructing the street. He walks over and tells the driver to move his truck. There is a short argument as the driver insists he has nowhere to move. Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt tells him to back his truck up. Suddenly, an alarm goes off, and a barrier ramp is raised at the end of the block to keep the robbers from leaving the street. Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt orders the driver to stay in his truck and rushes off.  Inside the exchange, Bane asks McGarrity for a progress report. McGarrity reports that they need eight more minutes to complete the program. Bane looks at the clock and says that they are leaving. The janitor orders everyone to stand, raises his submachine gun and fires into the ceiling, sending hostages scrambling to their feet. McGarrity stuffs his tablet into his bag, while Bane grabs his helmet and starts for the exit.  The officers aim their pistols and rifles at the front doors as the hostages begin to exit the building with their hands raised over their heads. A sniper stationed on a rooftop across the street notices a couple of bright headlights inside the lobby. Before he can register what they are, the crowd dives for cover as Bane bursts out of the building riding a motorcycle, followed by McGarrity, Petrov, and the janitor. Each robber is carrying a hostage, strapped to the back of his motorcycle. Peterfoleymatthewmodine yells for the officers to hold their fire. Bane and his men weave through the police cars, speed past Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt and the cement truck, use the crash barriers as ramps to jump over a few police cars, and escape. As they pass the cement truck and Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt's position, Bane and the janitor throw their hostages off. Peterfoleymatthewmodine shouts orders, and officers jump into the cars and speed away, tires screeching, as they give chase.  Bane and his men race through the streets. As they enter a tunnel, a single police car, driven by rookie officer Simonjansenwillestes and his veteran partner Kellybrentbriscoe catches on to them. Simonjansenwillestes tells Kellybrentbriscoe, riding shotgun, to shoot the tires, but Kellybrentbriscoe doesn't have a clean shot. Peterfoleymatthewmodine orders them over the radio to drop back to avoid endangering the hostages.  Suddenly, Simonjansenwillestes notices the tunnel lights behind them going out by themselves. The tunnel goes dark, and the police car's engine and battery suddenly cut off for a few seconds. Something sleek and black races past their car and Kellybrentbriscoe tells his partner, Oh boy You are in for a show tonight, son. Seconds later, Petrov's motorcycle suddenly sputters out. As Petrov comes to a stop, his hostage makes a break for it. Petrov aims his pistol, preparing to shoot the hostage, when Batman slams into him, knocking off his bike. He then climbs back on the Batpod, aims an EMP gun, and shorts out the janitor's motorcycle, bringing him to a stop. Just then, Officer Simonjansenwillestes shoots Batman's weapon. Simonjansenwillestes apologizes before his partner orders him back in the car.  Receiving word of the Batman's return, Peterfoleymatthewmodine jumps into Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt's cruiser, and they drive off to join the chase. As they drive, Peterfoleymatthewmodine orders every unit brought in, eager to take down Batman, even though Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt believes they should be focusing on stopping Bane from escaping.  While the car chase unfolds, Selinakyle.yle breaks into Johndaggettbenmendelsohn.s safe looking for the Clean Slate software program, which has the potential to expunge her criminal record. She is using special safecracking goggles that flip up and look like cat ears when she is not using them. When she opens the safe, she is enraged to find that it is empty.  As Batman chases Bane and McGarrity on the Batpod, Bane notices that the laptop application is 91 complete. With the cops closing in, Bane signals to McGarrity, then makes a tight uturn. A pursuing officer reports this to Peterfoleymatthewmodine over the radio, but Peterfoleymatthewmodine orders the officers to let Bane go and instead stay on Batman's trail. As a result, Bane is able to race through the police cars without any of them trying to intercept him, doing a second glance over his shoulder as he passes Batman. Once at a safe spot, he watches the chase for a few moments to make sure no one has seen him, then rides into a storm drain to head back to his hideout.  Batman rescues McGarrity's hostage and uses his bike to block the mercenary near a highway onramp. Batman steps up to McGarrity, shatters his visor with his fist, and looks at the laptop, which now reads application complete. As the police surround him, Batman grabs the laptop hard drive, then sets off an explosion with the Batpod cannons and jumps off of a stopped auto carrier. After another harrowing chase, the police box him in, and Batman turns into an alleyway. It appears that Batman has been cornered like a rat in a trap, but as Peterfoleymatthewmodine prepares to speak into a megaphone, a blue light and odd humming noise appears at the end of the alleyway, and Kellybrentbriscoe tells Peterfoleymatthewmodine he's got the wrong animal. The Bat emerges, and flies out and over the police officers, its downdraft pinning the cops down. Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt casually asks Peterfoleymatthewmodine if he's sure that was Batman who just flew off. Furious, Peterfoleymatthewmodine shoves the megaphone into Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt's hand.  At Johndaggettbenmendelsohn.s penthouse, Philipstryverburngorman reports to Johndaggettbenmendelsohn that the robbery was successful even with Batman's interference, and Bane has assured him the men who were captured will die before talking. Johndaggettbenmendelsohn tells a servant to open champagne and heads to his office. As he enters the office, he asks Can we get some girls in here A voice promptly says, Careful what you wish for, at which point Selinakyle.yle suddenly appears, attacks Johndaggettbenmendelsohn from behind, throws him across the room and pins him to the wall with her left boot restraining his right arm and her hand grasping his neck. She demands to know where the Clean Slate program is. Philipstryverburngorman comes in and puts a pistol to the back of Selinakyle.s head, but she disarms him by stomping her serrated heel on his instep. One of Johndaggettbenmendelsohn.s bodyguards bursts in. Selinakyle.yle holds him off by aiming her pistol at the bodyguard while collaring Johndaggettbenmendelsohn. She shoots out the window, and jumps onto a windowwashing platform with Johndaggettbenmendelsohn. which she lowers to the ground.  On the nearby rooftop, Selinakyle.yle pins Johndaggettbenmendelsohn down, and jams Philipstryverburngorman's pistol into his neck, trying to get him to talk. Johndaggettbenmendelsohn admits that he lied about the Clean Slate, which he considered a gangland myth. As Selinakyle.yle tries to control herself and takes this in, Bane's men surround her. She grabs Johndaggettbenmendelsohn and tries using him as a human shield to warn the henchmen to back off, but they ignore her. Batman appears, and he and Selinakyle.yle attack the mercenaries, disarming several of them. Selinakyle.yle is annoyed when Batman disarms her of her pistol when she's about to shoot a henchman. Suddenly, Barsadjoshstewart and some other mercenaries appear and open fire on them, forcing Batman and Selinakyle.yle to run towards the edge of the roof. Batman jumps off the roof and into the Bat, parked below the roof ledge. Selinakyle.yle hesitates for a moment, but makes the jump when she sees Bane approaching her. Bane can only watch as the Bat flies away.  Batman deposits Selinakyle.yle on a rooftop. She is annoyed that he tried to interfere, not even so much as giving a thank you to him. Brucein.n manages to figure out what she did with his fingerprints and learns that Johndaggettbenmendelsohn was interested in the exchange robbery. However, before Brucein.n can find out more, he is forced to duck as the spotlight of a police helicopter flying by shines over the roof. When he looks back up, Selinakyle.yle has vanished. So that's what it feels like, he says to himself.  Returning to the Batcave, Brucein.n asks Alfredmichaelcaine.ichaelcaine to have Luciusfoxmorganfreeman decode the hard drive and also notices his thumbprint scan is on the application. His decision to return as Batman leads to a spat with Alfredmichaelcaine. who is afraid he has a death wish. Alfredmichaelcaine.ichaelcaine leaves Brucein.n and the mansion for good after revealing the contents of Rachel's farewell letter to Brucein. given to Alfredmichaelcaine.ichaelcaine prior to her death at the Joker's hands in  The Dark Knight. Alfredmichaelcaine.ichaelcaine had burned the letter to protect Brucein.n from pain, since before her death Rachel chose Harveydent over Brucein.n as her lover.  The next morning, Brucein.n learns from Luciusfoxmorganfreeman that in the course of the robbery, Bane made stock trades to bankrupt Brucewayne Enterprises, meaning Brucewayne Enterprises is about to fall into Johndaggettbenmendelsohn.s hands. To protect one secret, Brucein.n and Luciusfoxmorganfreeman show Mirandatatemarioncotillard the fusion reactor. Luciusfoxmorganfreeman and Mirandatatemarioncotillard intend to use it for generating clean energy for the entire city, although Brucein.n is afraid of the chance that someone will turn the reactor into a nuclear weapon, as Dr. Leonidpavelalonaboutboul managed to discover. None of them are aware that Bane has in fact kidnapped Dr. Leonidpavelalonaboutboul for this purpose. The reactor is hidden in a chamber underneath the river so that it can be flooded for containment in emergencies. Brucein.n wants Mirandatatemarioncotillard to become acting CEO of Brucewayne Enterprises to safeguard the reactor.  Brucein.n is later booted out of a Brucewayne Enterprises board meeting at Johndaggettbenmendelsohn.s behest. As he leaves the building, he finds his car being towed. Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt shows up and offers Brucein.n a ride.  Johndaggettbenmendelsohn is not happy that Mirandatatemarioncotillard was appointed to the board, and when he returns to his apartment, he demands to see Bane. Philipstryverburngorman hesitates, but Bane suddenly appears behind Johndaggettbenmendelsohn. Johndaggettbenmendelsohn turns his anger on Bane, not happy that Bane's attack on the stock exchange didn't help Johndaggettbenmendelsohn take over Brucewayne Enterprises, and furthermore, is not happy about the fact that Bane also has been working Johndaggettbenmendelsohn.s construction crews around the clock all across the city for unknown purposes. Bane dismisses Philipstryverburngorman, calmly and casually revealing that the small fortune Johndaggettbenmendelsohn paid him does not give him complete power over him, and it was only for the construction machinery that he required to build the sophisticated underground sewers and accomplish his own future plans that he complied with Johndaggettbenmendelsohn.s orders, which render him Gotham's reckoning. Johndaggettbenmendelsohn calls Bane pure evil, but Bane replies that he is necessary evil and he breaks Johndaggettbenmendelsohn.s neck. He then has the body thrown in a dumpster.  Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt shows up at the hospital while Peterfoleymatthewmodine is talking to Jamesgordongaryoldman. to report the discovery of Johndaggettbenmendelsohn.s body. He has files that show Johndaggettbenmendelsohn.s name all over construction permits for underground digging across the city, which make him suspect that Johndaggettbenmendelsohn was somehow associated with Bane. Peterfoleymatthewmodine still is skeptical of Bane's existence, but Jamesgordongaryoldman. impressed with Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt's honesty and hard work, promotes him to detective, telling him he's not allowed to believe in coincidences anymore.  Brucein.n finds Selinakyle.yle at her apartment and says his powerful friend needs her help. He says he knows about the Clean Slate program and he has it. Selinakyle.yle says she'll think about it. She apologizes to Brucein.n about him losing all of his money in Bane's attack.  When Brucein.n arrives home in a cab, he finds Mirandatatemarioncotillard there. Brucein.n finds he doesn't have any keys, so they break into the house through a window. Brucein.s electricity is off, as he can't afford it anymore. As they sleep together, Mirandatatemarioncotillard talks about how fire made her family feel rich when they were growing up. Brucein.n notices a scar on her shoulder, which she calls a mistake.  While Mirandatatemarioncotillard is sleeping, Brucein.n sneaks down to the Batcave, puts on his Batsuit, and goes to meet with Selinakyle. who says that Brucewayne wasn't lying about his powerful friend. They take out a couple of mercenaries on the way. As Batman steps onto a catwalk, a grate slams shut, and Selinakyle.yle admits that she had to keep Bane's men from killing her. Batman is telling her she's made a mistake when Bane appears behind him. Batman isn't surprised when Bane reveals that he knows that it's Brucein.n underneath the mask. Bane must know Brucein.s identity through the League of Shadows. Although he was excommunicated before Brucein.s arrival and training, Bane claims that now, he is the League of Shadows, and must have had the information of Brucein.s alter ego reported to him through one of the members of the League who survived the assault on Gotham in  Batman Begins.  A lengthy battle of handtohand combat between the two ensues. Brucein.n appears to be more aggressive and offensive than his usual sense, knowing the strength of his opponent. Bane begins to defeat Brucein. who tries several diversions, like flashbangs and disabling the lights, but these prove useless against a trained League of Shadows member like Bane, who mocks his tactics. Bane beats Brucein.n into submission, breaking his cowl with a few blows to his head. As Brucein.n lies prone, Bane reveals where he has established his base. One of his men hands him a detonator, and upon pressing it, explosions go off and a Tumbler falls through the ceiling, revealing that Bane has set up his base underneath Brucewayne Enterprises' Applied Sciences office. Bane is Batman's most formidable enemy because he targets Brucein.ayne directly and uses Brucewayne's resources against the city of Gotham. As henchmen climb up ropes to raid Applied Sciences and capture Brucein.s armory, Brucein.n engages Bane again, but is beaten down again. Bane lifts Batman over his head and brings him down brutally on his knee, breaking his back. Bane tears off the broken section of Batman's cowl and drops it, victorious. Selinakyle. shocked that she just sent Brucein.n to his doom, slinks off as mercenaries grab Brucein.n and drag him away.  The scene cuts to the next morning. Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt knocks on Waynemanor's front door, looking for Brucein. but finding no one home, he goes into the city, and while sitting his car, he spots Selinakyle.yle getting into a cab. Recognizing her from the shootout at the bar, he tails her to the airport. Noticing the increased police presence, she ducks into an offlimits area. A uniformed officer spots her and asks to see her boarding pass. Selinakyle.yle hands the cop her hat and pretends to check her purse, then punches him. As she is walking down the jet bridge, Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt comes out of a door in front of her, flashing his badge.  Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt talks to Selinakyle.yle in an airport office, asking her why she's trying to run. He is able to determine that she's trying to escape from Bane. Selinakyle.yle says she's not sure if Batman is alive, given what she saw of his fight with Bane. She is then arrested, and placed in Blackgate prison.  Meanwhile, Brucein.n wakes up in a foreign prison, in pain from the fight. As he is regaining consciousness, he sees Bane standing over him. The prison sits at the bottom of a deep circular shaft, with the only way in or out being by climbing the stone walls. When Brucein.n asks Bane why he did not just kill him, Bane taunts Brucein.n that he intends to kill his soul first, making him witness Gotham City's downfall. Bane promises Brucein.n that he'll live at least long enough to see Gotham destroyed, and that only when he is done, and Gotham is ashes, will he give Brucein.n permission to die .  The prison is where Bane claims to have been born, and it is notorious as a Hell on Earth, from which nobody has managed to escape. However, one of the prisoners  tells Brucein.n that a child had managed to escape. The child was born of a mercenary, who fell in love with a warlord's daughter. The mercenary was sentenced to life in the prison, but the daughter made a deal with her father to free him and instead ended up a prisoner there herself. One day a riot broke out in the prison. She was raped and murdered, but her child escaped. Brucein.n concludes that the child must have been Bane.  While in his cell, Brucein.n sees several prisoners attempt to escape by using a rope, and climbing up the shaft towards the light, but fail to clear the final jump on to a ledge required to escape, instead falling and being slung into the brick walls on the sides of the shaft, severely wounding them.  Back in Gotham, Mirandatatemarioncotillard and Luciusfoxmorganfreeman arrive at Brucewayne Enterprises for a board meeting on the reactor project. They enter the board roomto find Bane and his men holding the board of directors hostage. Bane welcomes Luciusfoxmorganfreeman and asks him to nominate another board member to come with him. Fredericks, another board member, volunteers before Luciusfoxmorganfreeman can name a nominee. Bane and his men take Luciusfoxmorganfreeman, Mirandatatemarioncotillard and Fredericks down through the hole in Applied Sciences. As he is led along, Luciusfoxmorganfreeman is horrified watching henchmen fixing parts on the Tumblers.  Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt is talking with Jamesgordongaryoldman at the hospital about Batman's disappearance when Peterfoleymatthewmodine bursts in and informs him of Bane's latest move. This is the last straw for Jamesgordongaryoldman. He immediately orders Peterfoleymatthewmodine to send every available cop to search the sewers to smoke out Bane and his men, on  the pretense that they're performing a 'training exercise' . Peterfoleymatthewmodine apologizes to Jamesgordongaryoldman for not taking him seriously earlier, and departs. Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt prepares to leave with Peterfoleymatthewmodine. but Jamesgordongaryoldman holds him back and orders him to look up Johndaggettbenmendelsohn.s leads instead.  Peterfoleymatthewmodine oversees the operation from outside a subway tunnel portal, and watches as officers of every rank walk into the tunnel, not knowing that it will be a long time before they will see daylight again. Elsewhere, teams assemble at subway stations, sewer portals, manhole covers, and drainage pipes and descend into the tunnels, searching for Bane and his men.  Bane and his men lead Mirandatatemarioncotillard, Luciusfoxmorganfreeman, and Fredericks into a tunnel, where Luciusfoxmorganfreeman and Mirandatatemarioncotillard notice Dr. Leonidpavelalonaboutboul. They arrive at a dead end where henchmen plant explosive charges into a wall. Bane gives a nod, and all of the henchmen cover their ears as the wall is blasted, clearing a path into the reactor chamber. The explosion echoes through the underground tunnel network, audible to cops searching tunnels elsewhere in the city. Inside the chamber, Bane orders Luciusfoxmorganfreeman to turn the reactor on. Luciusfoxmorganfreeman refuses, so Bane signals for Barsadjoshstewart to hold a pistol to Fredericks' head. After Mirandatatemarioncotillard pleads with him to cooperate, she and Luciusfoxmorganfreeman put their hands on a handprint scanner to turn on the reactor. Bane then orders his men to take the three board members back to the surface.  Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt drives around in his unmarked unit, logging Johndaggettbenmendelsohn.s cement plants and locations they've done construction in. He is talking on his cell phone with Jamesgordongaryoldman. who tells him to keep looking deeper. He then pulls up to a cement plant.  In the reactor plant, Dr. Leonidpavelalonaboutboul completes his work  converting the reactor into a four megaton nuclear bomb. Bane orders his men to remove the reactor's core, which Dr. Leonidpavelalonaboutboul objects to  removing the core will render the bomb unstable and cause it to melt down within five months  until Bane threatens to harm Dr. Leonidpavelalonaboutboul.s family if he doesn't cooperate.  As he walks through the cement plant, Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt recognizes one of the construction workers as the cement truck driver whose truck prevented the police from getting closer to the stock exchange during the raid. Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt mentions that he is not allowed to believe in coincidences. On cue, the driver's colleague tries to swing a knife at him. Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt twists the guy's arm and shoots him. The driver grabs Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt from behind, and after a struggle, Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt fires his gun at the truck. The bullet ricochets off the barrel and hits the driver in the back. Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt tries to get the driver to reveal what he's working on, but it is too late  the man has died. Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt is disgusted with his use of lethal force and tosses his pistol away. When he gets out his cell phone and leaves a message for Jamesgordongaryoldman. Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt notices barrels of polyisobutylene and motor oil, and realizes that using Johndaggettbenmendelsohn.s construction crews, Bane has rigged numerous construction areas around the city with C4 explosive charges.  As he drives away from the cement plant, Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt gets on his radio and warns Peterfoleymatthewmodine that the cops are about to head into a trap. Peterfoleymatthewmodine immediately yells to the watch commanders with him to start withdrawing the officers under their charge.  Meanwhile, the mayor shows up at Heinz Field to watch the Gotham Rogues play against the Rapid City Monuments. He heads to his private box after shrugging off reporters asking him about cops heading underground, using the training exercise story Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt suggested to Peterfoleymatthewmodine.  As cops search the tunnels, Bane and his men arrive at the stadium, breaking in through the boiler room, and take up positions in the locker room tunnel as a young boy sings the national anthem. All of them are carrying detonators in their hands. During the national anthem, numerous Rogues players are seen, ready to take the field, including Quarterback Benroethlisberger, Wide Receivers Mikewallace and Hinesward, Safety Troypolamalu, and Tight End Heathmiller, along with former Steelers coach Billcowher. When Bane catches the child's singing, he comments, That's a lovely, lovely voice.  At the end of the song, Rapid City kicker Ravenstahl  kicks off to begin the first quarter. Bane comments, Let the games begin and presses the button on a remote control detonator. Several different events occur simultaneously  In the tunnels, officers stop when they hear booms. As they are trying to register and identify the noise, portions of the ceilings across the sewer and subway system collapse, trapping them underground.  A series of large explosions rip through Manhattan, destroying buildings and infrastructure alike. Bridges leading up to the city, with the exception of the Queensboro Bridge, are destroyed by Bane's explosives, trapping the entire population of the city inside.  Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt is driving down another street, siren wailing, when the street starts to blow up. Street lamps, buildings, and telephone poles collapse all around his car, while other vehicles are tossed. He manages to stay ahead of the explosives for a short amount of time until one blast causes his car to flip over once before landing upright on its wheels, demolished.  Once he comes to his senses, Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt gets on the radio with Peterfoleymatthewmodine. who confirms Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt's predictions every cop in the city is trapped in the tunnels. But Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt realizes that not every cop is stuck down there, and realizes that Bane will try to assassinate Jamesgordongaryoldman. Unfortunately, his car has been demolished. With no other option, Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt grabs a shotgun from the trunk of his car, and commandeers an SUV from another uninjured motorist.  Two of Bane's henchmen arrive at the hospital, searching for Jamesgordongaryoldman. They fire short bursts with their submachine guns as they enter the lobby, causing patients and guards to take cover. As they search the hospital, Jamesgordongaryoldman is alerted to their presence when the power goes out and the hospital switches to emergency lighting. He climbs out of his bed.  Outside, Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt screeches to a halt and runs through the lobby. As he searches the corridor, he hears gunshots. He runs to Jamesgordongaryoldman.s room, draws his shotgun, and kicks down the door, to discover that Jamesgordongaryoldman has already killed the two henchmen. Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt only has a second to register this before Jamesgordongaryoldman puts a pistol to the back of his head and orders him to get his coat.  At Heinz Field, wide receiver Hinesward is running the ball down the field when explosions go off in the support columns to the foundation, causing the field to collapse and swallow the players, except for Hinesward, who manages to run the ball to the end zone for a touchdown, only noticing the destruction when he looks behind him. An additional bomb goes off in the mayor's box, incinerating him and his aides. As the debris settles, Bane's men storm the bleachers, taking the crowd hostage, while Bane, Barsadjoshstewart and other mercenaries march onto the remains of the field. He declares to the crowd that he and his men have come to liberate Gotham. He displays the fusion reactor core, calling it the instrument of their liberation and interviews Dr. Leonidpavelalonaboutboul in front of the shocked audience. After getting Dr. Leonidpavelalonaboutboul to admit that he is the only person who knows how to disarm the bomb, Bane thanks him, then breaks Dr. Leonidpavelalonaboutboul.s neck. Bane also declares that he has left one citizen in charge of the detonator who will trigger the bomb in case of any sort of civil rebellion. Bane also threatens the government forces that should anybody try to enter or leave the city, he will detonate the nuclear weapon, thus forcing the government forces to guard the city and stop anybody from leaving.  The Queensboro Bridge is left intact as a means to provide food and supplies to Gotham's citizens.  As Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt drives to his apartment with Jamesgordongaryoldman. Jamesgordongaryoldman says he has to get in front of a camera, but Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt discourages him, saying that Bane will shoot him if he shows his face.  The next day, Bane proceeds to Blackgate Prison, where more than 1,000 prisoners have been incarcerated as per the Dent Act, which gave power to the police. He reads out Jamesgordongaryoldman.s speech revealing the truth about Harveydent, and declares the prisoners free, as the man who drew up the Dent Act himself was a murderer and a madman.  The prisoners join Bane and together enforce what Bane calls martial law forcing the elite out of their homes, holding kangaroo courts presided over by Dr. Jonathancranecillianmurphy and offering them a choice exile or death. Exile means being forced to walk on the frozen East River underneath the Brooklyn Bridge, where the ice cracks and drowns anyone making the crossing. Death is revealed to be the same thing, as those who choose it get sentenced to death by exile.  84 days into the siege, the Army slips an intelligence team into Gotham disguised as relief workers, under the command of Captain Markjonesdanielsunjata. They meet with Jamesgordongaryoldman. Peterfoleymatthewmodine. Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt, and some other cops who managed to escape being trapped underground. The soldiers, Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt, and the surviving cops begin tracking three military trucks, one of which carries the nuclear weapon . To avoid detection of the weapon, the three trucks are being driven around the city continuously.  Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt takes Markjonesdanielsunjata and his men to a Brucewayne Enterprises office that Luciusfoxmorganfreeman and Mirandatatemarioncotillard are sheltered in. Mirandatatemarioncotillard takes responsibility for the creation of the reactor which the bomb was molded from. Luciusfoxmorganfreeman explains that as the reactor's cells deteriorate, the reactor will become very unstable, and regardless of what happens, the bomb will go off in three weeks. Luciusfoxmorganfreeman admits that he could reconnect the core to the reactor to restabilize it. Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt prepares to leave with Markjonesdanielsunjata, but Markjonesdanielsunjata orders him to stay with Luciusfoxmorganfreeman and Mirandatatemarioncotillard while he goes to call in a report.  Unfortunately, someone has betrayed Markjonesdanielsunjata and his team, for just as they are leaving the hideout, a group of Bane's henchmen ambush them and open fire on them. Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt and Mirandatatemarioncotillard quickly escape by slipping out a back door, while Luciusfoxmorganfreeman is captured by a henchman. Markjonesdanielsunjata' team draws their weapons and begin shooting back, but prove no match for Bane's men, and they are shot dead. When Markjonesdanielsunjata breaks cover and tries to flee, he is shot in the chest and falls. As he lies on the ground, Bane appears over him. Markjonesdanielsunjata says he'll die before he can talk to his commander. Bane assures him, I'm on your schedule, captain, and crushes Markjonesdanielsunjata's neck. Bane orders his men to round up Luciusfoxmorganfreeman and the others for judgment and to hang the soldiers' bodies from one of the bridges as a message for the world.  All this time, Brucein. holed up in the prison, is watching the havoc in Gotham on a TV set in the prison. He gets the doctor there to crudely fix his back as his fight with Bane partially dislocated his vertebrae. The doctor puts Brucein.n into a crude form of traction and pushes the vertebrae back into place. The doctor tells Brucein.n to remain in that position until he can stand by himself. Enduring the pain, Brucein.n hallucinates that he sees Rachel's Alghul  who proclaims his immortality. As the days wear on in the prison, Brucein.s anger builds, and he is determined to save Gotham. He rigorously trains his body with pullups, pushups, and situps and he attempts to make the escape with the rope twice, but fails each time.  After the second attempt, Brucein.n questions how a child could have escaped, but he could not. The doctor explains that while paradoxically, it seems as if having no fear of death should enhance his escape chances, in reality the human trait of fearing death is the necessary ingredient. There are suggestions that Brucein.n his grief over Rachel's death, physical disability, 8year retirement from his Batman persona, and isolation is inured to mortality. He seems to have the death wish that Alfredmichaelcaine.ichaelcaine had tried to remedy earlier with the shock of his leaving Brucein. Brucein.n solves the dilemma in replying that he fears dying in prison when the people of Gotham can only be saved by him if he were to escape. He realizes that the child had escaped without the safety rope, and chooses not to use the rope in his third attempt. Brucein.n reveals his confidence by packing supplies for himself in a bag. He begins the climb to the Arabic chants of Deshi deshi basara basara meaning Rise. When he reaches the pivotal point, requiring the jump, a stream of bats flows from a tunnel inside the cave and startle him, but increase his confidence. Brucein.n takes the jump and latches onto the protruding rock and succeeds in his final attempt. He subsequently throws down a rope from the top, allowing all the current prisoners to escape as well.  Brucein.n returns to Gotham as Batman. He manages to gain trust from Selinakyle.yle after he catches her in the act of beating up two gangbangers trying to harm a young boy by offering her the Clean Slate program Selinakyle.yle accepts. Brucein.n gets to Mirandatatemarioncotillard and Luciusfoxmorganfreeman by letting Bane's men capture him, as Luciusfoxmorganfreeman has access to Brucein.s backup Batsuit. To escape, Selinakyle.yle comes in and declares to the mercenaries that Bane wants Brucein.n and Luciusfoxmorganfreeman by themselves. She knocks out the mercenaries and undoes their handcuffs. Luciusfoxmorganfreeman tells Brucein.n he's found a nice girlfriend and Selinakyle.yle says, He should be so lucky.  Once Luciusfoxmorganfreeman has put Brucein.n in his Batsuit, and Brucein.n has found the Bat, he saves Jamesgordongaryoldman and some of the surviving cops after they are captured and are forced to cross the frozen river, simultaneously lighting a huge Batman symbol which lets everyone in Gotham know that he is back. When Bane sees the symbol he states, Impossible. Keep her close . He'll come for her. Luciusfoxmorganfreeman reveals that trigger or no trigger, the nuclear device is unstable and will detonate anyway the next day, and recovers a signal jammer from the Bat which can block the signals from the trigger.  With Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt and Selinakyle.s help, Batman frees the police trapped in the sewers by using the Bat to destroy debris blocking the tunnels, and rescues Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt after he is captured trying to rescue cops through a manhole cover.  The next morning, the rallied police forces, led by Peterfoleymatthewmodine. assemble on Wall Street, facing against Bane's army. One of Bane's men gets on a megaphone and orders the cops to disperse or be shot at. Peterfoleymatthewmodine replies back, There's only one police in this town Bane orders his Tumblers to open fire, but as one of the Tumblers prepares to blast the cops with its cannons, the Bat appears and disables the cannons. As it flies off, the incited cops cheer and rush Bane's men. Physical combat ensues between Bane's men and the cops.  Batman fights Bane again, with more success. He punches Bane's mask, detaching some of the tubes on his mask that feed Bane his anesthetic, which weakens him greatly, angers the villain, and forces Bane into the offensive. Batman avoids blow after blow and then lands a series of furious punches on Bane's mask and body, culminating with a roundhouse kick that sends Bane to the floor. When Bane asks him how he escaped and came back, stating I broke you, Batman tries to force Bane to reveal the location of the trigger device stating, Tell me where the trigger is. Then you have my permission to die, appropriately using Bane's own phrase against him. After Batman tells Bane that he is not the only person who can escape from that prison, Mirandatatemarioncotillard suddenly stabs Batman in the side in a soft spot in the suit with her dagger sliding dangerously between his ribs.  It is then revealed that Mirandatatemarioncotillard's real name is Mirandatalia, and that she was the child who escaped from the Hell on Earth prison. Bane had been a prisoner there and her protector. During the prison riot that claimed her mother's life, Bane helped her escape, but in the process was hurt severely. The prison doctor attempted to repair the damage, but his methods resulted in Bane needing anesthetics to constantly keep the pain at bay.  After she escaped, Mirandatalia tracked down her father Rachel's Alghul. She convinced her father to rescue Bane, and both were trained within the League of Shadows. Apart from the realization that Bane was an extremist monster, the injuries inflicted on Bane's face became a reminiscence of the suffering endured by Mirandatalia's mother in the pit for Rachel's Alghul, which was why Bane was excommunicated from the group. Mirandatalia's intention is to take revenge on Batman for killing her father, as well as finishing the mission of destroying Gotham for its greed that cost her father's life. She hits the trigger of the nuclear weapon, but Jamesgordongaryoldman has managed to fit the signal jammer on the weapon just in time. However, there are only eleven minutes left for the nuke to detonate. MirandaMirandatalia says farewell and leaves Bane to kill Batman.  As Bane is about to execute Batman with a shotgun, Selinakyle.yle crashes into the lobby on the Batpod and mortally wounds Bane by blasting him with the Pod's large cannon. Mirandatalia and Barsadjoshstewart walk out to the Tumblers. As they are climbing in, Barsadjoshstewart is shot dead by Peterfoleymatthewmodine with a submachine gun as he fires from outside the stock exchange. He and several other officers are killed when Mirandatalia orders her Tumbler's driver to gun them down. She takes control of the truck carrying the weapon, but her escorts are finished off in a prolonged chase sequence, with Selinakyle.yle riding the Batpod and Batman flying the Bat in the air, and attacking the convoy. Mirandatalia's truck goes off the road and crashes, and she is fatally wounded because she isn't wearing a seatbelt. In her last moments alive, she explains how her access to the reactor chamber allowed her to set a timer to flood it, preventing the weapon from being returned there. She dies believing she had finally completed her father's work and avenged his death.  Luciusfoxmorganfreeman escapes the flooding chamber and realizes there is no way of stabilizing the weapon. The weapon cannot be deactivated, and will detonate in less than 2 minutes. Batman explains that the Bat has no autopilot, and that he will need to fly the bomb out of Gotham. Batman shares a kiss with Selinakyle. before revealing to Jamesgordongaryoldman his true identity He says that a true hero puts a coat on a young boy after his parents are killed, and says, it's going to be alright son, as Jamesgordongaryoldman does to Brucein.n in  Batman Begins. As he exits, Jamesgordongaryoldman says his true name.  With not much time left, Batman attaches the bomb to the Bat, and flies it away from the city, and out over the bay. The citizens of Gotham watch as the weapon detonates on the horizon, and the mushroomcloud balloons over the bay.  In the aftermath, the police recapture all of those released by Bane.  A private funeral is held on the grounds of Waynemanor for Brucein. by those who knew his true identity . Alfredmichaelcaine.ichaelcaine sobs quietly, feeling that he let Brucein.s parents down by not protecting him.  Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt resigns from the police force, and explains to Jamesgordongaryoldman that Gotham will never really know who saved it. Jamesgordongaryoldman tells him that they will know that it was 'The Batman' who saved them. In tribute, a statue has been erected in Batman's memory.  In the aftermath of Brucein.ayne's death, certain provisions are made. The majority of the estate is sold, with the money given to Alfredmichaelcaine. Waynemanor is given to the city of Gotham, as a place for orphaned boys to stay. Strangely, one of the Brucewayne family's treasures  cannot be located.  Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt is also given a duffel bag as part of Brucein.s will. When presenting his I.D., the clerk who checks it suggests that he go by his real first name as it appears on his I.D. Robin.  Back in Applied Sciences, Luciusfoxmorganfreeman has workers go over the second camouflage rotor in the underground storage area. Wanting to know what he could have done to get the autopilot functioning, he is surprised when the workers explain that the autopilot is functional, and the computer log shows that Brucein.ayne made the changes 6 months prior.  Up on the roof of Gotham's Police Department, Jamesgordongaryoldman finds the once broken Batsignal  repaired.  Meanwhile, Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt has opened the duffel bag, and finds a spelunking rope, and GPS coordinates. The information leads him to a waterfall . He makes his way past the waterfall, and into the cave, where his light attracts a flurry of bats. The light he uses, given to him by Brucewayne, is the same the Brucein.n uses when he first enters the cave in  Batman Begins.  In Florence, Italy, Alfredmichaelcaine.ichaelcaine has returned to the restaurant that he had visited during Brucein.s absence long ago. As he scans the tables, he sees Brucein.n and Selinakyle.yle at a nearby table and smiles. A fleeting glance between both Alfredmichaelcaine.ichaelcaine and Brucein.n is enough to assure the other that each of them will be alright. After Brucein.n had attached the bomb to the Bat and taken off, he ejected with an escape pod to distance himself from the explosion and allowed the autopilot to continue to transport the bomb. There is a shot of Batman in a flying vehicle with a timer at five seconds, leading viewers to believe the explosion killed him, but Batman was not in the Bat carrying the bomb and was not within the blast radius of the bomb in that timeframe.  In the final shot, we see Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt walking over a pool of water. As he does so, his movement activates the black flooring containing the batsuit. Johnblakejosephgordonlevitt stares around him as the flooring rises up.