In late summer 1945, guests are gathered for the wedding reception of Donvitocorleone Doncorleone's daughter Connietaliashire and Carlorizzigiannirusso.izzi Gianni Russo. Vitomarlonbrando, the head of the Doncorleone Mafia family, is known to friends and associates as Godfather. He and Tomhagenrobertduvall Robert Duvall, the Doncorleone family lawyer, are hearing requests for favors because, according to Italian tradition, no Sicilian can refuse a request on his daughter's wedding day. One of the men who asks the Donvitocorleone for a favor is Amerigobonasera, a successful mortician and acquaintance of the Donvitocorleone, whose daughter was brutally beaten by two young men because she refused their advances the men received minimal punishment. The Donvitocorleone is disappointed in Bonasera, who'd avoided most contact with the Donvitocorleone due to Doncorleone's nefarious business dealings. The Donvitocorleone's wife is godmother to Bonasera's shamed daughter, a relationship the Donvitocorleone uses to extract new loyalty from the undertaker. The Donvitocorleone agrees to have his men punish the young men responsible in return for future service if necessary.  Meanwhile, the Donvitocorleone's youngest son Michaelalpacino.lpacino, a decorated Marine hero returning from World War II service, arrives at the wedding and tells his girlfriend Kayadamsdianekeaton.damsdianekeaton anecdotes about his family, informing her about his father's criminal life he reassures her that he is different from his family and doesn't plan to join them in their criminal dealings. The wedding scene serves as critical exposition for the remainder of the film, as Michaelalpacino.lpacino introduces the main characters to Kayadamsdianekeaton. Fredojohncazale, Michaelalpacino.s next older brother, is a bit dimwitted and quite drunk by the time he finds Michaelalpacino.lpacino at the party. Sonnyjamescaan, the Donvitocorleone's eldest child and next in line to become Donvitocorleone upon his father's retirement, is married but he is a hottempered philanderer who sneaks into a bedroom to have sex with one of Connie's bridesmaids, Lucymancinijeannielinero. Tomhagenrobertduvall is not related to the family by blood but is considered one of the Donvitocorleone's sons because he was homeless when he befriended Sonny in the Little Italy neighborhood of Manhattan and the Donvitocorleone took him in and saw to Tomhagenrobertduvall's upbringing and education. Now a talented attorney, Tomhagenrobertduvall is being groomed for the important position of consigliere  to the Donvitocorleone, despite his nonSicilian heritage.  Also among the guests at the celebration is the famous singer Johnnyfontanealmartino, Doncorleone's godson, who has come from Hollywood to petition Donvitocorleone's help in landing a movie role that will revitalize his flagging career. Jackwoltzjohnmarley, the head of the studio, denies Johnnyfontanealmartino the part , which will make him an even bigger star, but Doncorleone explains to Johnnyfontanealmartino I'm gonna make him an offer he can't refuse. The Donvitocorleone also receives congratulatory salutations from Lucabrasi, a terrifying enforcer in the criminal underworld, and fills a request from the baker who made Connie's wedding cake who wishes for his nephew Enzo to become an American citizen.  After the wedding, Tomhagenrobertduvall is dispatched to Los Angeles to meet with Jackwoltzjohnmarley, but Jackwoltzjohnmarley angrily tells him that he will never cast Johnnyfontanealmartino in the role. Jackwoltzjohnmarley holds a grudge because Johnnyfontanealmartino seduced and ruined a starlet who Jackwoltzjohnmarley had been grooming for stardom and with whom he had a sexual relationship. Jackwoltzjohnmarley is persuaded to give Johnnyfontanealmartino the role, however, when he wakes up early the next morning and feels something wet in his bed. He pulls back the sheets and finds himself in a pool of blood he screams in horror when he discovers the severed head of his prized 600,000 stud horse, Khartoum, in the bed with him. Lennymontana, Donvitocorleone's top button man or hitman, is responsible.  Upon Tomhagenrobertduvall's return, the family meets with Virgiltheturksollozzoallettieri, who is being backed by the rival Dontattaglia family. He asks Doncorleone for financing as well as political and legal protection for importing and distributing heroin. Despite the huge profit to be made, Vitocorleone refuses, explaining that his political influence would be jeopardized by a move into the narcotics trade  the judges and politicians he's allied himself with over the course of several decades would renounce their friendships with him if he were to enter the drug trade. The Donvitocorleone's eldest son, Sonny, who had earlier urged the family to enter the narcotics trade, breaks rank during the meeting and questions Virgiltheturksollozzoallettieri's assurances as to the Doncorleone Family's investment being guaranteed by the Dontattaglia Family. His father, angry at Sonny's dissension in a nonfamily member's presence, privately rebukes him later. Doncorleone then dispatches Lucabrasi to infiltrate Virgiltheturksollozzoallettieri's organization and report back with information. During the meeting, while Lucabrasi is bent over to allow Brunotattagliatonygiorgio to light his cigarette, he is stabbed in the hand by Virgiltheturksollozzoallettieri, and is subsequently garroted by an assassin.  Soon after his meeting with Virgiltheturksollozzoallettieri, Doncorleone is gunned down in an assassination attempt just outside his office, and it is not immediately known whether he has survived. Fredocorleone had been assigned driving and protection duty for his father when Pauliegatto, the Donvitocorleone's usual bodyguard, had called in sick. Fredocorleone proves to be ineffectual, fumbling with his gun and unable to shoot back. When Sonny hears about the Donvitocorleone being shot and Pauliegatto's absence, he orders Clemenzarichards. Castellano to find Pauliegatto and bring him to the Donvitocorleone's house.  Virgiltheturksollozzoallettieri abducts Tomhagenrobertduvall and persuades him to offer Sonny the deal previously offered to his father. When Tomhagenrobertduvall is released, Virgiltheturksollozzoallettieri gets word that the Donvitocorleone has survived the attempt on his life. He angrily tells Tomhagenrobertduvall to persuade Sonny to accept his offer.  Enraged, Sonny refuses to consider it and issues an ultimatum to the Tattaglias turn over Virgiltheturksollozzoallettieri or face a lengthy, bloody and costly  gang war. They refuse, and instead send Sonny a Sicilian message, in the form of two fresh fish wrapped in Lucabrasi's bulletproof vest, telling the Corleones that Lucabrasi sleeps with the fishes.  Clemenza later takes Pauliegatto and one of the family's hitmen, Roccolampone, for a drive into Manhattan. Sonny wants to go to the mattresses  set up beds in apartments for Doncorleone button men to operate out of in the event that the crime war breaks out. On their way back from Manhattan, Clemenza has Pauliegatto stop the car in a remote area so he can urinate. Roccolampone shoots Pauliegatto dead he and Clemenza leave Pauliegatto and the car behind.  Michaelalpacino. whom the other Mafia families consider a civilian uninvolved in mob business, visits his father at a small private hospital. He is shocked to find that no one is guarding him  a nurse tells him that the men were interfering with hospital policy and were told to leave by the police about 10 minutes before Mike's arrival. Realizing that his father is again being set up to be killed, he calls Sonny for help, moves his father to another room, and goes outside to watch the entrance. Michaelalpacino.lpacino enlists help from Enzo the baker Gabrieletorrei, who has come to the hospital to pay his respects. Together, they bluff away Virgiltheturksollozzoallettieri's men as they drive by. Police cars soon appear bringing the corrupt Captain Mccluskeysterlinghayden, who viciously punches Michaelalpacino.lpacino in the cheek and breaks his jaw when Michaelalpacino.lpacino insinuates that Virgiltheturksollozzoallettieri paid McCluskey to set up his father. Just then, Tomhagenrobertduvall arrives with private detectives licensed to carry guns to protect Doncorleone, and he takes the injured Michaelalpacino.lpacino home. Sonny responds by having Brunotattagliatonygiorgio, the eldest son and underboss of Donphilliptattagliavictorrendina, killed .  Following the attempt on the Donvitocorleone's life at the hospital, Virgiltheturksollozzoallettieri requests a meeting with the Corleones, which Captain McCluskey will attend as Virgiltheturksollozzoallettieri's bodyguard. When Michaelalpacino.lpacino volunteers to kill both men during the meeting, Sonny and the other senior Family members are amused however, Michaelalpacino.lpacino convinces them that he is serious and that killing Virgiltheturksollozzoallettieri and McCluskey is in the family's interest It's not personal. It's strictly business. Because Michaelalpacino.lpacino is considered a civilian, he won't be regarded as a suspicious ambassador for the Corleones. Although police officers are usually off limits for hits, Michaelalpacino.lpacino argues that since McCluskey is corrupt and has illegal dealings with Virgiltheturksollozzoallettieri, he is fair game. Michaelalpacino.lpacino also implies that newspaper reporters that the Corleones have on their payroll would delight in publishing stories about a corrupt police captain.  Michaelalpacino.lpacino meets with Clemenza, one of his father's caporegimes , who prepares a small pistol for him, covering the trigger and grip with tape to prevent any fingerprint evidence. He instructs Michaelalpacino.lpacino about the proper way to perform the assassination and tells him to leave the gun behind. He also tells Michaelalpacino.lpacino that the family were all very proud of Michaelalpacino.lpacino for becoming a war hero during his service in the Marines. Clemenza shows great confidence that Michaelalpacino.lpacino can perform the job and tells him it will all go smoothly. The plan is to have the Doncorleone's informers find out the location of the meeting and plant the revolver before Michaelalpacino. Virgiltheturksollozzoallettieri and McCluskey arrive.  Before the meeting in a small Italian restaurant, McCluskey frisks Michaelalpacino.lpacino for weapons and finds him clean. After a few minutes where Michaelalpacino.lpacino and Virgiltheturksollozzoallettieri converse in Italian, Michaelalpacino.lpacino excuses himself to go to the bathroom, where he retrieves the planted revolver. Returning to the table, he fatally shoots Virgiltheturksollozzoallettieri, then McCluskey. Michaelalpacino.lpacino is sent to hide in Sicily while the Doncorleone family prepares for allout warfare with the Five Families  as well as a general clampdown on the mob by the police and government authorities. When the don returns home from the hospital, he is distraught to learn that it was Michaelalpacino.lpacino who killed Virgiltheturksollozzoallettieri and McCluskey.  Meanwhile, Connie and Carlorizzigiannirusso.s marriage is disintegrating. They argue publicly over Carlorizzigiannirusso.s suspected infidelity and his possessive behavior toward Connie. By Italian tradition, nobody, not even a highranking Mafia don, can intervene in a married couple's personal disputes, even if they involve infidelity, money, or domestic abuse. One day, Sonny sees a bruise on Connie's face and she tells him that Carlorizzigiannirusso.izzi hit her after she asked him if he was having an affair. Sonny tracks down and severely beats up Carlorizzigiannirusso.izzi in the middle of a crowded street for brutalizing the pregnant Connie, and threatens to kill Carlorizzigiannirusso.izzi if he ever abuses Connie again. An angry Carlorizzigiannirusso.izzi responds by plotting with Dontattaglia and Donemiliobarzinirichardconte, the Corleones' chief rivals, to have Sonny killed.  Later, Carlorizzigiannirusso.izzi has one of his mistresses phone his house, knowing that Connie will answer. The woman asks Connie to tell Carlorizzigiannirusso.izzi not to meet her tonight. The very pregnant and distraught Connie assaults Carlorizzigiannirusso.izzi he takes advantage of the altercation to beat Connie in order to lure Sonny out in the open and away from the Doncorleone compound. When Connie phones the compound to tell Sonny that Carlorizzigiannirusso.izzi has beaten her again, the enraged Sonny drives off  to fulfill his threat against Carlorizzigiannirusso. On the way to Connie and Carlorizzigiannirusso.s house, Sonny is ambushed at a toll booth on the Long Island Causeway and violently shot to death by several carloads of hitmen wielding Thompson submachine guns.  Tomhagenrobertduvall relays the news of Sonny's massacre to the Donvitocorleone, who calls in the favor from Bonasera to personally handle the embalming of Sonny's body. Rather than seek revenge for Sonny's killing, Doncorleone meets with the heads of the Five Families to negotiate a ceasefire. Not only is the conflict draining all their assets and threatening their survival, but ending it is the only way that Michaelalpacino.lpacino can return home safely. Reversing his previous decision, Donvitocorleone agrees that the Doncorleone family will provide political protection for Dontattaglia's traffic in heroin, as long as it is controlled and not sold to children. At the meeting, Doncorleone deduces that Donbarzini, not Dontattaglia, was ultimately behind the start of the mob war and Sonny's death, despite showing early signs of senility.  In Sicily, Michaelalpacino.lpacino patiently waits out his exile, protected by Dontommasinocorradogaipa, an old family friend. Michaelalpacino.lpacino aimlessly wanders the countryside, accompanied by his everpresent bodyguards, Calofrancocitti and Fabrizioangeloinfanti. In a small village, Michaelalpacino.lpacino meets and falls in love with Apolloniavitellisimonettastefanelli, the beautiful young daughter of a bar owner. They court and marry in the traditional Sicilian fashion, but soon Michaelalpacino.s presence becomes known to Doncorleone enemies. As the couple is about to be moved to a safer location, Apollonia is killed as a result of a rigged car  exploding on ignition Michaelalpacino. who watched the car blow up, spots Fabrizio hurriedly leaving the grounds seconds before the explosion, implicating him in the assassination plot.   With his safety guaranteed, Michaelalpacino.lpacino returns home. More than a year later, in 1950, he reunites with his former girlfriend Kayadamsdianekeaton.damsdianekeaton after a total of four years of separation  three in Italy and one in America. He tells her he wants them to be married. Although Kayadamsdianekeaton.damsdianekeaton is hurt that he waited so long to contact her, she accepts his proposal. With Donvitocorleone semiretired, Sonny dead, and middle brother Fredocorleone considered incapable of running the family business, Michaelalpacino.lpacino is now in charge he promises Kayadamsdianekeaton.damsdianekeaton he will make the family business completely legitimate within five years.  Two years later, Clemenza and Salvatoretessioabevigoda, complain that they are being pushed around by the Donbarzini Family and ask permission to strike back, but Michaelalpacino.lpacino denies the request. He plans to move the family operations to Nevada and after that, Clemenza and Salvatoretessioabevigoda may break away to form their own families in the New York area. Michaelalpacino.lpacino further promises Connie's husband, Carlorizzigiannirusso. that he will be his right hand man in Nevada , unaware of his part in Sonny's assassination. Tomhagenrobertduvall has been removed as consigliere and is now merely the family's lawyer, with Donvitocorleone serving as consigliere. Privately, Tomhagenrobertduvall inquires about his change in status, and also questions Michaelalpacino.lpacino about a new regime of soldiers secretly being built under Roccolampone Tomhagenrobertduvall Rosqui. Donvitocorleone explains to Tomhagenrobertduvall that Michaelalpacino.lpacino is acting on his advice.  Another year or so later, Michaelalpacino.lpacino travels to Las Vegas and meets with Moegreenealexrocco.reenealexrocco, a rich and shrewd casino boss looking to expand his business dealings. After the Donvitocorleone's attempted assassination, Fredocorleone had been sent to Las Vegas to learn about the casino business from Moegreenealexrocco. Michaelalpacino.lpacino arrogantly offers to buy out Moegreenealexrocco but is rudely rebuffed. Moegreenealexrocco believes the Corleones are weak and that he can secure a better deal from Donbarzini. As Moegreenealexrocco.reenealexrocco and Michaelalpacino.lpacino heatedly negotiate, Fredocorleone sides with Moegreenealexrocco. Afterward, Michaelalpacino.lpacino warns Fredocorleone to never again take sides with anyone against the family.  Michaelalpacino.lpacino returns home. In a private moment, Donvitocorleone explains his expectation that the Family's enemies will attempt to murder Michaelalpacino.lpacino by using a trusted associate to arrange a meeting as a pretext for assassination. Donvitocorleone also reveals that he had never really intended a life of crime for Michaelalpacino. hoping that his youngest son would hold legitimate power as a senator or governor. Some months later, Donvitocorleone collapses and dies while playing with his young grandson Anthonyanthonygounaris in his tomato garden. At the burial, Salvatoretessioabevigoda conveys a proposal for a meeting with Donbarzini. which identifies Salvatoretessioabevigoda as the traitor that Donvitocorleone was expecting.  Michaelalpacino.lpacino arranges for a series of murders to occur simultaneously while he is standing godfather to Connie's and Carlorizzigiannirusso.s newborn son at the church  Donstraccidoncostello is gunned down along with his bodyguard in a hotel elevator by a shotgunwielding Clemenza.  Moegreenealexrocco.reene is killed while having a massage, shot through the eye by an unidentified assassin.  Doncuneorudybond is trapped in a revolving door at the St. Regis Hotel and shot dead by soldier Williciccijoespinell.  Dontattaglia is assassinated in his bed, along with a prostitute, by Roccolampone and an unknown associate.  Donbarzini is killed on the steps of his office building along with his bodyguard and driver, shot by Alneririchardbright Richard Bright, disguised in his old police uniform.  After the baptism, Salvatoretessioabevigoda believes he and Tomhagenrobertduvall are on their way to the meeting between Michaelalpacino.lpacino and Donbarzini that he has arranged. Instead, he is surrounded by Williciccijoespinell and other button men as Tomhagenrobertduvall steps away. Realizing that Michaelalpacino.lpacino has uncovered his betrayal, Salvatoretessioabevigoda tells Tomhagenrobertduvall that he always respected Michaelalpacino. and that his disloyalty was only business. He asks if Tomhagenrobertduvall can get him off for old times' sake, but Tomhagenrobertduvall says he cannot. Salvatoretessioabevigoda is driven away and never seen again .  Meanwhile, Michaelalpacino.lpacino confronts Carlorizzigiannirusso.izzi about Sonny's murder and forces him to admit his role in setting up the ambush, having been approached by Donbarzini himself.  Michaelalpacino.lpacino assures Carlorizzigiannirusso.izzi he will not be killed, but his punishment is exclusion from all family business. He hands Carlorizzigiannirusso.izzi a plane ticket to exile in Las Vegas. However, when Carlorizzigiannirusso.izzi gets into a car headed for the airport, he is immediately garroted to death by Clemenza, on Michaelalpacino.s orders.  Later, a hysterical Connie confronts Michaelalpacino.lpacino at the Doncorleone compound as movers carry away the furniture in preparation for the family move to Nevada. She accuses him of murdering Carlorizzigiannirusso.izzi in retribution for Carlorizzigiannirusso.s brutal treatment of her and for Carlorizzigiannirusso.s suspected involvement in Sonny's murder. After Connie is removed from the house, Kayadamsdianekeaton.damsdianekeaton questions Michaelalpacino.lpacino about Connie's accusation, but he refuses to answer, reminding her to never ask him about his business or what he does for a living. She insists, and Michaelalpacino.lpacino outright lies, reassuring his wife that he played no role in Carlorizzigiannirusso.s death. Kayadamsdianekeaton.damsdianekeaton believes him and is relieved. The film ends with Clemenza and new caporegimes Roccolampone and Alneririchardbright arriving and paying their respects to Michaelalpacino. Clemenza kisses Michaelalpacino.s hand and greets him as Doncorleone. As Kayadamsdianekeaton.damsdianekeaton watches, the office door is closed.