The movie begins with an old man named Jinglespaul.dgecombdabbsgreer in a retirement center. He takes two pieces of dry toast from an orderly, who mentions Jinglespaul.s habit for taking walks outside the ground. The orderly is worried about Jinglespaul. but allows him to continue with his daily routine.  Jinglespaul and several other residents are watching TV when an old movie with Fredastaire dancing to the song Heaven is on. Jinglespaul sees it and walks away, followed by his friend Elaineevebrent. Elaineevebrent realizes that the movie has awakened some powerful memories for Jinglespaul. and asks about it. Jinglespaul tells Elaineevebrent his story that he was a prison guard during the Depression, in charge of Death Row, informally called The Green Mile, because of its green tile floor. Jinglespaul.s most powerful memory of this time took place in 1935  The story then flashes back to the 1930's at the State Prison, where a young Jinglespaul.dgecombtomhanks suffers from a urinary infection. Some of the other guards Brutus Brutal Howelldavidmorse, Deanstantonbarrypepper and Toottootharrydeanstanton.erwilligerjeffreydemunn bring in a new inmate. His name is Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey Michael Clarke Duncan like the drink, only not spelled the same. He is a gigantic muscular man, but when Jinglespaul talks to Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey they find that he has the mindset of a small child very meek and apparently scared of the dark.  When Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey is brought in, another guard named Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison is sent off Death Row to attend to work elsewhere. Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison is not happy about this, and in frustration he lashes out at another inmate named Eduarddelecroixmichaeljeter.ichaeljeter, breaking Eduarddelecroixmichaeljeter.s fingers. Jinglespaul is given a copy of Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey's records and finds that he was sent to Death Row after being convicted for the murder  of two small girls. Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey does not mention his crime, only stating that he tried to take it back, but it was too late.  Later on, Jinglespaul is outside when he is met by Warden Halmooresjamescromwell. Halmooresjamescromwell gives Jinglespaul the execution papers for an inmate named Arlenbitterbuck, and has a conversation with him about the young guard named Percywetmoredoughutchison. It's revealed that Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison is the nephew of the governor's wife, and his powerful political connections are what got him hired and keep him in the job, because Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison is apparently stupid and mean according to the other guards. Jinglespaul finds out that Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison has put in to be an administrator at a mental hospital, which would mean better pay and better hours. Jinglespaul theorizes that Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison wants to witness an execution up close before moving onto a new job. Warden Halmooresjamescromwell also mentions that his wife, Melinda, is not well she suffers from bad headaches and must have an XRay in order to find the source of the problem. That night, Jinglespaul meets with his wife Janbonniehunt and discusses the problem with Halmooresjamescromwell's wife.  Next day, Brutus spots a mouse in the cell block. They watch it run into a small room in the corner, which turns out to be a padded room for dangerous inmates but is currently used for storage. The guards check everything in the room but do not find the mouse. A few hours later, Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison spots the mouse and goes into a fury trying to kill it. Jinglespaul berates Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison for scaring the inmates in his pursuit of the mouse. Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison doesn't care, thinking the inmates are contemptible. Jinglespaul feels differently, believing that under enough strain the inmates would snap and cause serious problems. Brutus grabs Percywetmoredoughutchison. but Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison threatens to use his connections as nephew to the governor's wife to get the others fired if they hurt him.  Jinglespaul and the others do a rehearsal for the next execution, with the prison's elderly janitor, TootToot Toottootharrydeanstanton.eanstanton helping them. Jinglespaul instructs Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison to watch and learn while the others prep the electric chair. That night, the execution of inmate Arlenbitterbuck is carried out. Afterward, Jinglespaul confronts Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison about his new job opportunity. Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison reveals that he wants to be out front  before he leaves.  Next day, the inmate named Eduarddelecroixmichaeljeter.ichaeljeter has found the mouse again, named it Mr. Jingles and is trying to tame it. The mouse is able to fetch a spool of thread as a trick. The other guards allow Eduarddelecroixmichaeljeter.ichaeljeter to keep Mr. Jingles as a pet.  Jinglespaul meets with Warden Halmooresjamescromwell again, getting word of a new inmate coming in, a man named Williamwharton who killed three people in a holdup. Halmooresjamescromwell is almost in tears the doctors have told him that his wife Melinda has a tumor the size of a lemon in her brain, virtually inoperable and eventually fatal. That night, Jinglespaul suffers from his urinary infection even more he is almost in constant pain.  Jinglespaul intends to see the doctor next day after the new inmate is brought in. Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison and Toottootharrydeanstanton go to retrieve Williamwharton from a hospital, where he is in an apparent trance presumably from medication. As soon as Williamwharton gets inside, he springs to life, attacking the guards and kneeing Jinglespaul in the groin. Dean is nearly strangled before anyone can get Williamwharton under control. When the others go to report what has happened, Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey asks to speak with Jinglespaul. When Jinglespaul approaches Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.s cell, Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey grabs Jinglespaul and puts his hand over Jinglespaul groin. Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey holds on for several seconds, until the lights flare brightly. Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey then lets go, coughing and gasping until he releases a cloud of gnatlike spores from his mouth. Jinglespaul asks what happened, but Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey can only say that I helped. Later when Jinglespaul visits the washroom, he feels no pain at all. Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey's act has healed his infection.  The next morning, Jinglespaul goes into town to see Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey's public defender, Burthammersmithgarysinise who preceded over Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.s trial. Burthammersmithgarysinise is absolutely convinced of Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.s guilt. Back at the prison, Jinglespaul presents Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey with a loaf of cornbread baked by his wife, as a thanks for Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.s help. Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.ichaelclarkeduncan shares the cornbread with Eduarddelecroixmichaeljeter.ichaeljeter amp Mr. Jingles, but does not give any to Williamwharton. This enrages Williamwharton. who takes his fury out on the guards, urinating on Toottootharrydeanstanton. The guards use a fire hose to catch Williamwharton off guard, then wrap him up in a straitjacket and send him to the padded room. When Williamwharton spits on them later, he is sent to the room again.  The rehearsal for Eduarddelecroixmichaeljeter.s execution takes place the next day. Jinglespaul has decided to put Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison in charge, in the hope that he will finally leave the prison right afterward. When Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison walks by the cells later, he is grabbed by Williamwharton. Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison wets himself in terror, and threatens the men to never mention this. Jinglespaul states that what happens on the Mile, stays on the Mile. They will not say anything about what happened. Eduarddelecroixmichaeljeter. however, delights in Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison being humiliated.  Later on, Mr. Jingles runs across the room between cells. Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison walks up and stomps on the mouse, coldly uncaring about what he has done leaving Eduarddelecroixmichaeljeter.ichaeljeter screaming in shock. Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey asks for the mouse, so Jinglespaul picks it up and hands it to Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan. The other guards watch in shock, awe, and possibly horror as light shines from Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.s hands. Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey coughs, releases another cloud of spores, and Mr. Jingles runs across the room good as new.  Percywetmoredoughutchison. seeing that the mouse is uninjured, is furious thinking the guards have set out to make a fool out of him. Jinglespaul confronts Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison and gives him an ultimatum Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison will transfer out immediately after Eduarddelecroixmichaeljeter.s execution, or the others will go public about Percywetmoredoughutchison.s record of mistreatment of the prisoners and his behavior on the Mile. Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison agrees.  Just before he walks the Mile to the electric chair, Eduarddelecroixmichaeljeter.ichaeljeter gives Mr. Jingles to Jinglespaul knowing that he will be taken care of. When Jinglespaul points out that he cannot have a mouse sitting on his shoulder during an execution, Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey volunteers to take care of Mr. Jingles.  Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison sets everything up for Eduarddelecroixmichaeljeter.s execution, with one small exception he does not properly soak the sponge required for proper electric conduction, wanting to punish Eduarddelecroixmichaeljeter.ichaeljeter one more time. As a result, the execution is excruciating for Eduarddelecroixmichaeljeter.ichaeljeter and the entire horrified audience he rolls in pain, screaming and even catches fire before finally dying.  The guards confront Percywetmoredoughutchison. but Jinglespaul tells them that Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison isn't worth fighting over and that he will still honor their agreement to leave.  Jinglespaul and his wife go to visit Halmooresjamescromwell and Melinda the next day. Halmooresjamescromwell reveals that Melinda is rapidly falling apart, she is losing her memory and experiencing severe behavior changes including uncontrollable cursing. Jinglespaul invites the other guards  to dinner later and discusses Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey's acts of healing both him and Mr. Jingles. Jinglespaul states that he wants to sneak Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey out to try and heal Melinda. The others are very skeptical, pointing out that Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.ichaelclarkeduncan is a convicted murderer, and it would be disastrous if they are found or if he escapes. Jinglespaul puts forth his belief that Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.ichaelclarkeduncan is innocent Jinglespaul does not see God putting a gift like that in the hands of a man who would kill a child.  The next day, they carry out the plan Jinglespaul.rugswharton so he will not see them leaving, then the others gag Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison and put him in the padded room as supposed retribution for Eduarddelecroixmichaeljeter. They open up Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey's cell, and he is excited at the prospect of going for a ride outside and also seems to already know what they want him to do . Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey agrees to try and help Melinda. Williamwharton grabs Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.ichaelclarkeduncan as they head out, and Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey is apparently horrified by what he sees when touching Williamwharton.  They arrive at Halmooresjamescromwell's home, and Halmooresjamescromwell threatens them with a shotgun. Jinglespaul talks him down while Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.ichaelclarkeduncan goes upstairs to meet Melinda. Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey gets very close to Melinda's face and something comes out of her mouth and into his, making the light in the room shine intensely. Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey breaks the connection with her, falling down coughing. Melinda sits up, looking much healthier and having no memory of anything that happened before her XRay. Halmooresjamescromwell collapses, weeping at his wife's restoration. Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey continues to cough, unable to release the spores like before. Melinda gives Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.ichaelclarkeduncan a pendant with the mark of St. Christopherthe healer as a present.  Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey returns to the prison, still very ill from the encounter. Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison is released, apparently keeping silent but the others still fear that he might talk. Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey grabs Percywetmoredoughutchison. releasing the spores directly into Percywetmoredoughutchison.s mouth. Percywetmoredoughutchison. in a daze, walks over to Williamwharton.s cell and empties his revolver into Williamwharton.s chest. The others seize Percywetmoredoughutchison. who leans back and coughs up the remaining black spores. Upon examination, Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison appears to be catatonic. He is eventually sent to a mental hospital  for presumably the rest of his life.  Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.ichaelclarkeduncan repeats that Williamwharton and Percywetmoredoughutchison.etmoredoughutchison were bad men, and places his hand on Jinglespaul. Jinglespaul sees that Williamwharton was responsible for the murder Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey was convicted for. Now that he knows Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.ichaelclarkeduncan is innocent, Jinglespaul is unsure how to proceed. He talks to his wife that night and he suggests talking to Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey about it. He even asks Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.ichaelclarkeduncan if they should just let him go. Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.ichaelclarkeduncan does not want to escape he reveals that in addition to healing he can also feel the pain of all others around him and does not wish to continue with such pain in the world. Jinglespaul offers Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey a last request Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.ichaelclarkeduncan states that he has always wanted to see a flicker show . They bring in a movie projector with the film Tophat, the same movie that the elderly Jinglespaul was watching at the beginning of the movie, which is what triggered Jinglespaul.s memories particularly when Fredastaire is dancing to Heaven and Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey watches in awe saying they like angels  That night, Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey is put to death as the guards watch on in tears. The elderly Jinglespaul.s voice cuts in and states that he left The Green Mile soon after, unable to carry on after seeing Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey die. He and some of the others transferred to a youth corrections' facility.  Elaineevebrent admits that Jinglespaul.s tale is quite a story, and does not apparently believe it. She also points out that Jinglespaul mentioned his son being grown up in 1935, which means he should be much older than he appears.  Jinglespaul takes Elaineevebrent on a walk, and they come to a cabin in the woods. There is a mouse sleeping in a small box Elaineevebrent is shocked to meet Mr. Jinglespaul found the mouse again after Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.s execution and has kept him ever since. Jinglespaul states that he is now 108 years old, and that he believes Johncoffeymichaelclarkeduncan.offey infected him and Mr. Jingles with life. Jinglespaul feels that this is his punishment for killing a genuine miracle of God he must stay alive and watch everyone he cares about, including friends like Elaineevebrent, grow old and die before his own death.  Later, Jinglespaul is seen at Elaineevebrent's funeral, quietly wondering just how much longer he has to go. We each owe a death, he states, There are no exceptions. But oh God, sometimes The Green Mile seems so long.