A young woman walks into a cemetery in the Republic of Zubrowka, a place said to have fallen on hard times. She passes a bench with three men singing and then approaches a memorial with several hotel keys attached to it, dedicated to a man known only as Author. The woman puts a key on the memorial and then takes out a book titled The Grand Budapest Hotel.  1985  We meet the Author  in his home as his grandson runs around firing his toy gun. The Author addresses the audience and begins to tell the story behind his book as it was told to him in a very unexpected way.  1968  In his youth, the Author  travels to Zubrowka, a place that has been devastated by war. He ventures up to The Grand Budapest Hotel, which was once wellrenowned. It sees very few guests apart from the Author, and several unnamed patrons.  One day while chatting with concierge M. Jean , they happen to see an old man  sitting in the lobby by himself, looking rather sad and lonely. When The Author asks who he is, Jean informs him that the old man is Zeromoustafa, the owner of the hotel. It is widelyknown that Mr Moustafa has procured many other fine lodgings throughout the world, but Jean surprises The Author, when he explains that in The Grand Budapest, he occupies a small servant's quarters.  However, their conversation is interrupted when a man in the lobby begins choking. As Jean rushes to help him, The Author returns to his room, via elevator. As the days go on, curiosity about Moustafa continues to haunt The Author, until they chance to meet in the hotel's bath.  Moustafa invites the Author to dine with him that evening. When they meet again, Zero begins to tell his story.  Part 1  M. Gustavehad.ad  1932  Zero starts off his story in his teenage years. We first see Zero  assisting other members of the Grand Budapest Hotel, at the beck and call of the legendary concierge, M. Gustavehad.. , as they prepare a meal for the concierge, and an elderly woman known as Madamed. .  During the meal, the old woman tells how she is frightened to leave the hotel, afraid she'll never see Gustavehad.ad again. The man keeps assuring her that she's worrying over nothing.  Before her car pulls away, she requests that the concierge light a candle for her, before the say I love you, and she is driven back to her home.  It was then that Zero was formally introduced to Gustavehad. Originally wishing to just send him off to light the candle as Madamed has wished, Gustavehad.ad soon questions the young man's employ. Soon finding out he's there on a 'trial basis,' Gustavehad.ad initiates an impromptu interview with Zero. Despite what Zero begins telling him, Gustavehad.ad determines that the boy has no hotel experience, education, or family. When asked why he would want to be a lobby boy, Zero replies, Who wouldn't, at the Grand Budapest Hotel Gustavehad.ad is pleased with this answer. Zero asks him if he was ever a lobby boy. Gustavehad.ad merely replies, What do you think  With Gustavehad.ad acting as his mentor, Zero works at the hotel just as quickly and efficiently as everybody else. He never misses any detail to ensure the guests are perfectly pleased with their visit, taking all the tips Gustavehad.ad gives him, to heart.  As for just who owns The Grand Budapest, the identity of the hotel's owner is a mystery, but it is wellknown that the owner sends an emissary, Deputy Mrkovacs  to the hotel to check up on business. Zero also learns that many of the hotel's most special guests would come for Gustavehad. It became wellknown that the man would sleep with a number of elderly blonde women with insecurities and a need for attention.  During this time, Zero would come to meet the love of his life, Chuckretrievingagatha , a baker with a distinctive birthmark on her cheek who works at Mendl's, Gustavehad.s favorite pastry shop. However, though Old Zero makes a small mention of her , he quickly moves on to other matters in his story.  Part 2  Madame C.V.D.u.T  While fetching newspapers one morning, an article catches Zero's eye. He rushes back to the hotel to show Gustavehad. that Madamed. has been found dead in her bathroom. A shocked Gustavehad.ad immediately takes Zero on a train where they travel to Madamed.'s estate.  On the train, they stop by a barley field on a day that is known as the Closing of the Frontier. Gustavehad.ad and Zero see soldiers standing in the field. A group of soldiers enter and ask to see the documents of both men. Gustavehad.ad shows his papers, but Zero has none as he is an immigrant. The main soldier orders Zero to come with him. Gustavehad.ad defends Zero and gets into a fight with the soldiers. They pin the two of them against the wall, and Gustavehad. seeing Zero in trouble, barks at the soldiers, TAKE YOUR HANDS OFF MY LOBBY BOY  The fracas soon catches the attention of Inspector Henckels , who enters the car, and quickly recognizes Gustavehad.hengustavehears the names of Henckels's parents, he quickly remembers who they were, as well as Henckels's childhood name of Little Albert. Henckels gives Zero a pardon for the trip, but urges him to get official papers immediately.  Gustavehad.ad and Zero soon after, arrive at Madamed.'s mansion. Her maid, Clotilde , guides them to the old woman's body lying in a casket. Gustavehad.ad speaks to her corpse, praising her as if she were still alive.  Eventually, Clotilde tells Gustavehad.ad that the butler, M. Sergex , wishes to speak to him. However, Sergex is frantic and panicky, and quickly rushes off, with Gustavehad.ad and Zero in pursuit.  They soon find themselves in the trophy room of the house, where all manner of relations to Madamed are present for the reading of her will. Surprising to both Gustavehad.ad and Zero, is Mrkovacs, who is the executor of her estate, and who has analyzed her will, and its numerous amendments.  Key among the inheritors mentioned, are her son Dmitridmitri  and his three sisters, Marguerite , Laetizia , and Carolina . There are also small provisions for other members of the family, but Mrkovacs claims that a new amendment was sent to his offices just recently. Reading it aloud, the amendment , thanks Gustavehad.ad for his kindness, and allows him ownership of cherished painting, titled Boy With Apple.  When Gustavehad.ad steps forward, Dmitridmitri angrily confronts him, hurling several homophobic slurs, and refusing him the painting. A small war of words causes a small scuffle among Dmitridmitri, Gustavehad. Zero, and Dmitridmitri's righthand man, J.G. Jopling .  Gustavehad.ad then takes Zero to the room where Boy With Apple is hanging. After admiring it for a little while, the two take it down, and replace it . Gustavehad.ad then has Sergex wrap up Boy With Apple. Unseen by anyone else, Sergex tucks an envelope labeled CONFIDENTIAL into the rear of the painting, before it is wrapped in brown paper, and given to Gustavehad. Before Gustavehad.ad and Zero leave, Gustavehad.ad remembers that Sergex had wanted to speak to him before about something, but the Frenchman does not say anything more.  On the train ride back, Gustavehad.ad claims he will cherish the gift from Madamed, but quickly realizes that Dmitridmitri may come looking for the painting. He proposes to Zero that they sell off Boy With Apple on the black market, and, in exchange for his services, Zero will be given 1.5 of the cut and Gustavehad.ad will make him his heir. Zero agrees, and quickly jots down the concierge's declaration, to make it official.  Once back at the hotel, the two hide Boy With Apple in the hotel's vault, before Henckels arrives, to arrest Gustavehad.ad as the suspect murderer in Madamed's death. As Zero watches, Gustavehad.ad attempts to run, but Henckels and his men give chase.  Part 3  Check Point 19  CriminalInterment Camp  One week before his trial, Gustavehad.ad is imprisoned. Going to visit him, Zero is shocked to find his senior has suffered injuries, but Gustavehad.ad simply claims he had to prove himself to the others, once they questioned his virility.  Zero has also met with Mrkovacs, who explains that a deposition was given by several members of Madamed's family, that Gustavehad.ad secretly entered the mansion, and poisoned Madamed with strychnine. However, the one who claimed to have seen the events unfold, Sergex, has gone missing.  Gustavehad.ad is pretty sure that Madame's family forced Sergex to bear false witness, and though Gustavehad.as an alibi as to where he was at the time, he fears bringing the woman to whose company he was in  into the events, as it will ruin her reputation.  In the meantime, Dmitridmitri has secretly begun his own search for the missing Sergex, sending his henchman Jopling to check on Sergex's sister, who claims she has not seen her brother recently.  Zero soon ends up acting as the middleman for Gustavehad.s correspondence with the staff of the Grand Budapest, reading them the concierge's letters, and his own prose poems. Gustavehad.ad also requests that any issues should be addressed to Zero in his absence.  Back in the prison, Gustavehad.as almost become a concierge to the inmates there, serving many of them mush with a cheery air. He has also shared the Mendl's pastries he receives, with several inmates Pinky , Wolf , Gunther , and Ludwig . Gustavehad.s hospitality towards the men pays off, and they want to help him break out of the prison. However, the amount of tools to break out of the prison are limited, but upon looking at the Mendl's box, Gustavehad.atches a cunning plan.  It is at this point where Old Zero becomes overwhelmed with emotions and he starts to cry. He explains to the Author that talking about Chuckretrievingagatha makes him emotional. Old Zero then stops his main story, and gives some background on his and Chuckretrievingagatha.s relationship, of which even Gustavehad.ad was privy to , even 'interviewing' the young woman to see if she was proper for his Lobby Boy.  Returning to the story, Zero worked with Chuckretrievingagatha. to place specific tools, baked into several pastries sent to Gustavehad. This fashioning of them to look like baked goods fooled the prison guards, and allowed Gustavehad.ad and his comrades the proper tools to attempt their escape.  In regards to Madamed's will, Mrkovacs is of the mind that something is missing from the paperwork, and that along with the disappearance of Sergex, the executor asks Dmitridmitri and his sisters to bring the local authorities to look into the matter.of which Dmitridmitri quickly refuses to do so. Dmitridmitri simply seems to want what he feels is owed him, while Mrkovacs is of the mind that he must follow the instructions his former client laid out, and proceed in an honest matter. This retort is met with Dmitridmitri storming out of the room, and Jopling throwing Mrkovacs's cat out the window to its death.  Later, Mrkovacs collects the cat's body and boards a trolley, but soon finds Jopling following him. Mrkovacs attempts to lose the bodyguard, by ducking into the Kunst Museum . However, as he attempts to leave out a rear door, Jopling stops him, slamming the door, severing 4 of the man's fingers, before murdering him. Mrkovacs's absence is felt the next day at The Grand Budapest, when a note is received from his office, telling that his usual visit has been cancelled.  As the time for Gustavehad.s escape draws near, Zero tells Chuckretrievingagatha about Boy With Apple. Fearful that he and Gustavehad.ad might be caught, he gives her the necessary information to remove it from the hotel's vault .  At the prison, Gustavehad.ad and his fellow inmates begin to put their plan of escape into action. Aside from a noisy prisoner who sees them escape , the group finds their biggest obstacle in an underground hatch, which is occupied with several guards playing poker. Gunther sacrifices himself for the group, killing the guards, but dying in the process.  Finally, the remaining men reach the outside of the prison with Zero waiting for Gustavehad. Ludwig, Pinky, and Wolf part ways, overtaking a nearby bus. However, Gustavehad.ad soon grows upset at Zero when he finds the lobby boy has not procured a safe house, spare clothes, or brought his favorite cologne. Gustavehad.ad then angrily lashes out at the boy, criticizing his culture, before the boy shames the concierge, by telling how his family was killed, forcing him to retreat and look for work on his own. Gustavehad.ad sincerely apologizes to Zero, before the escape sirens blare, and the two make a run for it.  In the aftermath of the escape Henckels and his men investigate the break out, but also find Jopling in their midst. Henckels also informs Jopling that Madamed's lawyer was found dead just recently. Jopling claims he was aware Mrkovacs had gone missing, but claims he knew nothing of the man's death, before being escorted from the prison.  After traipsing across the snowcovered countryside, Gustavehad.ad and Zero find a telephone box. Once he gets through, Gustavehad.ad then relays a special request to.  Part 4  The Society of the Crossed Keys  The society turns out to be an interwoven group of numerous hotel concierges. Gustavehad.s message for help, soon finds it's way through concierges M. Ivan , M. Martin , M. Robin , M. Georges , and M. Dino .  In the end, it is M. Ivan who retrieves Gustavehad.ad and Zero from the countryside. The concierges have also learned through sources, that Sergex has sought refuge in a mountain range known as Gabelmeister's Peak. The concierges have been able to obtain train tickets for the two, as well as Gustavehad.s favorite cologne .  With Mrkovacs now deceased, Dmitridmitri attempts to go over the remnants of his mother's will. It is during this time that the painting Boy With Apple returns to his mind.and is the first time he has found it missing from the mansion's study Clotilde the maid then confirms that the painting was removed by Gustavehad.  During this time, Chuckretrievingagatha decides to retrieve Boy With Apple using Zero's information, but grows wary when she hears footsteps approaching her room.  The next day, Sergex's sister is found beheaded, the missing body part in a laundry basket . Also near her, was a telegram envelope, with its contents missing. Henckels and his soldiers investigate, and also are able to retrieve the telegram's information from the offices, which tell Sergex's sister to meet him near Gabelmeister's peak.  Gustavehad.ad and Zero attempt to rendezvous with Sergex at an observatory near the summit of Gabelmeister's peak, only for several monks, to direct the two to a monastery high in the hills.  In a confessional in the rear of the monastery, Sergex informs Gustavehad.ad and Zero of the death of his sister, as well as his witness to the creation of a second will Madamed had made . Sergex explains that Dmitridmitri and his family destroyed it, but that he  was able to obtain a copy of it. However, before he can tell where it is, Sergex falls silent.  Gustavehad.ad and Zero soon find that Sergex has been strangled to death, and see Jopling leaving out a side door  The two give chase down the hills, Jopling on skis, and Gustavehad.ad and Zero on a sled. The wild ride through the snow ends with Jopling pulling off to the side, while the sled plows into a hill, sending Zero into the snow, and Gustavehad.anging precariously over the edge.  Jopling attempts to loosen the icy ledge that the concierge hangs from, when Zero pushes the deranged murderer over the edge, to his death. However, their victory is shortlived, as Henckels is seen across the way, demanding the two not move. Gustavehad.ad and Zero then take Jopling's motorcycle, amid gunfire from Henckels's troops.  Part 5  The Second Copy of the Second Will  The war finally comes to the residence of The Grand Budapest Hotel, with numerous members of the Military taking over its many rooms. In the absence of Gustavehad.ad and Zero, concierge duties have now fallen to a man named M. Chuckretrievingagatha, both Gustavehad.ad and Zero have her enter the hotel under the guise of delivering complimentary pastries from Mendl's, as a cover to retrieve Boy With Apple for them. However, as they watch the front door, Dmitridmitri and his sisters pull up to the entrance  As the family enters the lobby, Dmitridmitri spies Chuckretrievingagatha.who quickly turns around and attempts to escape. The two find themselves in an elevator, where Dmitridmitri tears a corner of the paper wrappings.which reveals a portion of the painting to him. Once they arrive on the 6th floor, Dmitridmitri attempts to chase.  Meanwhile, fearing for Chuckretrievingagatha.s life, Gustavehad.ad and Zero enter the hotel disguised as Mendl's associates.only to encounter Dmitridmitri attempts to kill Gustavehad. but the gunfire rouses several other Military men on the floors, and an impromptu shootout breaks loose  Henckels soon reaches the floor, demanding all parties ceasefiring. However, the silence is broken when Chuckretrievingagatha.s voice is heard calling for help Zero sees her dangling off the edge of the third floor suite, the painting hanging nearby. Rushing to her aid, he ends up pitching over the edge along with her, before they both fall off the building.and through the roof of the Mendl's pastry wagon they came in  After Boy With Apple is retrieved, the Confidential paperwork Sergex hid on the back is found. With Gustavehad. Dmitridmitri, Zero, Chuckretrievingagatha. and a number of the hotel staff and armed forces around them, Henckels opens the second will, and reads from its contents. Gustavehad.ad is not only vindicated of Madamed.'s murder, but the second will also gives him numerous portions of numerous businesses she own, including ownership of the Grand Budapest Hotel . In a newspaper article, it is also mentioned that her son Dmitridmitri has disappeared without a trace .  As Old Zero continues the story, he notes that Gustavehad.ad almost taken on the same aire as the numerous older women he pleasured. As well, with Gustavehad.ad now having newfound wealth and financial freedom, Zero was then promoted to concierge of the hotel.  A scene is shown briefly of Gustavehad.ad presiding over Zero and Chuckretrievingagatha.s wedding , but Zero tells that both his wife and their first child died shortly afterwards, from a fatal disease.  The story then switches to Gustavehad. Zero, and Chuckretrievingagatha on a train . During this time, Gustavehad.ad finally answered the question Zero had asked him some time ago, about if he ever was a lobby boy. The wealthy man says yes, but admits that Zero was a much better lobby boy than he ever was.  During the journey, the train stops again in the same barley field as before, and a number of soldiers board checking for papers. While Gustavehad.ad and Chuckretrievingagatha check out, the soldier does not accept Zero's pass. Gustavehad.ad attempts to use the pass Henckels gave them on their last trip, but the man tears it up, showing that it has no value in their current wartime climate, as the country on the pass  has now ceased to exist. Though Gustavehad.ad threatens the soldier with punishment, the man knocks out Zero with the barrel of his gun, causing the former concierge of the Grand Budapest Hotel, to leap to his feet and assault the man.  As Old Zero comes out of his story, the Author inquires what happened to Gustavehad.ad after that. Old Zero then tells that the soldiers had him killed, and with his death, everything that he owned, was willed to him .  After the story and their meal, the two men head to the front desk, though the concierge is nowhere to be found. Zero then goes behind the counter, and retrieves the keys to both of their rooms. One of the key's large tags reads M Gustavehad.uite.  As they wait for the elevator to their rooms, The Author asks Zero if he chose not to sell the hotel to maintain a part of Gustavehad.s world. Zero replies he kept the hotel as a tribute to Chuckretrievingagatha. and the best years of his life. He believes the world Gustavehad.ad was gone before he worked at the hotel. He departs from the Author. The Author states that he would later travel to South America after visiting the hotel, which he describes as marvelous ruins that he never returned to.  The film closes with a shot of the young woman finishing the Author's book at the cemetery.