The Godfather Part II presents two parallel storylines. One involves Mafia chief Michaelcorleone.orleone in 19581959 after the events of the first movie the other is a series of flashbacks following his father, Vitocorleone.orleone from 1917 to 1925, from his youth in Sicily  to the founding of the Vitocorleone family in New York.  The film begins in 1901, in the town of Vitocorleone, Sicily, at the funeral of young Vitocorleone.s father, Antonioandolini, who has been murdered for an insult to the local Mafia lord, Donciccio. During the procession, Vitocorleone.s older brother is murdered because he swore revenge on the Don. Vitocorleone.s mother goes to Donciccio to beg for mercy, but he refuses, knowing that nineyearold Vitocorleone.orleone will seek revenge later in life. The mother takes Donciccio hostage at knifepoint, allowing her son to escape, and Donciccio's men kill her. They search the town for the boy, but he is aided in his escape by the townspeople. Vitocorleone.orleone finds his way by ship to New York, and at Ellis Island an immigration agent chooses Vitocorleone.s hometown of Vitocorleone as his surname, and he is registered as Vitocorleone.orleone.  In 1958 in a scene similar to the opening of the first film, Michaelcorleone.orleone , Godfather of the Vitocorleone family, deals with various business and family problems during an elaborate party at his Lake Tahoe, Nevada compound to celebrate his son's First Communion. In his office, Michaelcorleone.orleone meets with corrupt Nevada Senator Patgeary  to discuss the price of the gaming licenses for the hotelcasinos the Family is buying. Geary, who has obvious contempt for Michaelcorleone.orleone and other Italian businessmen who are moving into his state to take advantage of gambling opportunities, promises to make Michaelcorleone.s acquisition of his gaming license a difficult process. Michaelcorleone.orleone ends his conversation with Geary when he refuses to pay the outrageous fee Geary demands, telling the senator he'll get nothing.  Michaelcorleone.orleone also deals with his selfindulgent younger sister Connie , who, although recently divorced from her second husband, is planning to marry a man named Merljohnson  with no obvious means of support and of whom Michaelcorleone.orleone disapproves. He also talks with Johnnyola , the right hand man of Jewish gangster Hymanroth , who is supporting Michaelcorleone.s move into the gambling industry. Belatedly, Michaelcorleone.orleone deals with Frankfiveangelspentangeli , a business associate who took over Vitocorleone caporegime Peterclemenza's territory in New York City after his death, and now has problems with the Rosatobrothers, who are backed by Hymanroth. Frankpentangeli leaves abruptly, after telling Michaelcorleone.orleone your father did business with Hymanroth, your father respected Hymanroth, but your father never trusted Hymanroth.  Later that night, Michaelcorleone.orleone barely escapes an assassination attempt when his wife Kay  notices the bedroom window drapes are inexplicably open, which allows two unseen hitmen to spray the bedroom with bullets. The two hitman are found dead having been killed by a mole within the compound. Afterwards, Michaelcorleone.orleone tells his lawyer and associate Tomhagen  that the hit was made with the help of someone close, and that he must leave, entrusting all his power to Tomhagen to protect his family.   Flashback In 1917 New York City, the adult Vitocorleone.orleone  works in a grocery store in the Lower East side with his friend Gencoabbandando. The neighborhood is controlled by a member of the The Black Hand, Flashbackdonfanucci , who extorts protection payments from local businesses. One night, Vitocorleone.s neighbor Peterclemenza  asks him to hide a stash of guns for him, and later, to repay the favor, takes him to a fancy apartment where they commit their first felony together, stealing an elegant rug.  The film flashforwards to Michaelcorleone.s time. Michaelcorleone.orleone meets with poushal Hymanroth in Miami, Florida who tells Michaelcorleone.orleone that he believes Frankpentangeli was responsible for the assassination attempt, and that Frankpentangeli will pay for it. Traveling to Brooklyn, Michaelcorleone.orleone lets Frankpentangeli know that Hymanroth was actually behind it, and that Michaelcorleone.orleone has a plan to deal with Hymanroth. but he needs Frankie to cooperate with the Rosatobrothers in order to put Hymanroth off guard. When Frankpentangeli goes to meet with the Rosatos at a local bar, he is told Michaelcorleone.orleone says hello, as he is attacked from behind but the attempted murder is accidentally interrupted by a policeman. Frankpentangeli is left for dead, and his bodyguard, Willicicci , is struck by a car while shooting at the Rosatos as they drive away.  Back in Nevada, Tomhagen is called to a brothel in Carson City run by Michaelcorleone.s older brother Fredoyou , where Senator Geary is implicated in the death of a prostitute, and Tomhagen offers to take care of the problem in return for friendship between the Senator and the Vitocorleone family.  Meanwhile, Michaelcorleone.orleone meets Hymanroth in Havana, Cuba, in late 1958, at the time when dictator Fulgenciobatista is soliciting American investment, and communist guerrillas are trying to bring down the government. At a birthday party for Hymanroth. Michaelcorleone.orleone mentions that there is a possibility that the rebels might win, making their business dealings in Cuba problematic. Earlier that day, Michaelcorleone.orleone had witnessed a communist rebel kill a Havana policemen by detonating a grenade that also killed the rebel himself. The comment prompts Hymanroth to remark, privately, that Michaelcorleone.orleone has not delivered the two million dollars to firm their partnership.  Fredoyou, carrying the promised money, arrives in Havana and meets Michaelcorleone. Michaelcorleone.orleone mentions Hymanroth and Johnnyola to him, but Fredoyou says he has never met them. Michaelcorleone.orleone confides to his brother that it was Hymanroth who tried to kill him, and that he plans to try again. Michaelcorleone.orleone assures Fredoyou that he has already made his move, and that Hymanroth will never see the New Year.  Instead of turning over the money to Hymanroth. Michaelcorleone.orleone asks him who gave the order to have Frankpentangeli killed. Hymanroth avoids the question, instead speaking angrily of the murder of his old friend, Moegreene, which Michaelcorleone.orleone had orchestrated .  Michaelcorleone.orleone has asked Fredoyou, who knows Havana well, to show Senator Geary and other important officials and businessmen a good time, during which Fredoyou pretends to not recognize Johnnyola. Soon after, at a sex show, Fredoyou comments loudly that Johnnyola told him about the place, contradicting what he told Michaelcorleone.orleone twice earlier, that he didn't know Hymanroth or Ola. Michaelcorleone.orleone now realizes that the traitor is his own brother, and dispatches his bodyguard to deal with Hymanroth.  Johnnyola is strangled, but Hymanroth. in a delicate state because of his heart condition, is taken to a hospital, where Michaelcorleone.s enforcer is shot trying to kill him. At Fulgenciobatista's New Year's Eve party, at the stroke of midnight, Michaelcorleone.orleone grasps Fredoyou tightly by the head and kisses him I know it was you Fredoyou broke my heart. When guerrillas attack, the guests flee, but Fredoyou refuses to go with Michaelcorleone. despite Michaelcorleone.s pleas that Fredoyou is still his brother and that it's the only way out.   Flashback  Flashbackdonfanucci of the Black Hand is now aware of the partnership between Vitocorleone. Peterclemenza and Saltessio , and wants his share of their profits every week. Peterclemenza and Saltessio agree to pay, but Vitocorleone.orleone is reluctant and asks his friends to leave everything in his hands so Flashbackdonfanucci will accept less and indeed, Vitocorleone.orleone manages to get Flashbackdonfanucci to take only one sixth of what he demanded . Immediately afterward, during the neighborhood festa, Vitocorleone.orleone murders Flashbackdonfanucci in the hallway outside his apartment and then rejoins his wife and four children on the stoops outside his apartment building where Vitocorleone.orleone tells the infant Michaelcorleone.orleone that his father loves him very much.  In January 1959, Nevada, Michaelcorleone.orleone returns to his snowcovered Lake Tahoe compound after fleeing Cuba, where Tomhagen tells him that Hymanroth escaped from Cuba after suffering a stroke and is recovering in Miami, that Michaelcorleone.s bodyguard is dead, and that Fredoyou is probably hiding in New York. Tomhagen also informs Michaelcorleone.orleone that Kay had a miscarriage while he was away. Michaelcorleone.orleone is distraught at the news and furiously demands to know the sex of the child, but Tomhagen is unable to tell him.   Flashback  with Flashbackdonfanucci dead and with no one else apparently to take over the Black Hand, Vitocorleone.orleone earns the respect of the neighborhood and begins to intercede in local disputes, operating out of the storefront of his Genco Pura Olive Oil Company  which he manages as well as give out favors to others in the community such as a local young woman threatened with eviction. Vitocorleone.orleone intimidates her landlord into letting her stay for a few extra weeks. rent free.  In Washington, D.C. of 1959, a Senate committee, of which Senator Geary is a member, is conducting an investigation into the Vitocorleone family. They question disaffected soldier Willicicci about his role as a button man in the Family, but he cannot implicate Michaelcorleone. because he never received any direct orders from him. When Michaelcorleone.orleone appears before the committee, Senator Geary makes a big show of supporting ItalianAmericans and then excuses himself from the proceedings. During questioning, Michaelcorleone.orleone denies all criminal allegations against him, from the murder of Sollozzo and Captain McCluskey back in 1946 , and to his business status of operating several gambling casinos in Nevada. Michaelcorleone.orleone makes a statement challenging the committee to produce a witness to corroborate the charges against him. The hearing ends with the Chairman promising a witness who will do exactly that.  Frankpentangeli, who did not die in the attack by the Rosatobrothers, has made a deal with the FBI, and will testify against Michaelcorleone. Tomhagen and Michaelcorleone.orleone discuss the problem, observing that Hymanroth.s strategy to destroy Michaelcorleone.orleone is well planned. Michaelcorleone.s brother Fredoyou has been found and persuaded to return to Nevada, and in a private meeting he explains to Michaelcorleone.orleone his betrayal upset about being passed over to head the family in favor of Michaelcorleone. he wants respect and his due. He helped Hymanroth thinking there would be something in it for him, but he swears he didn't know they wanted to kill Michaelcorleone. He also tells Michaelcorleone.orleone that the Senate Committee's chief counsel is Hymanroth.s man. Michaelcorleone.orleone then tells Fredoyou're nothing to me now. Not a brother, not a friend, nothing, and privately instructs soldier and button man Alneri  that nothing is to happen to Fredoyou while their mother is still alive.  At the hearing in which Frankpentangeli is to testify, Michaelcorleone.orleone arrives accompanied by Frankpentangeli's brother, brought from Sicily, and whose presence causes Frankie to recant his previous statements about Michaelcorleone. When Frankpentangeli is pressed, he claims that he just told the FBI what they wanted to hear. With no witness to testify against Michaelcorleone. the committee adjourns, with Tomhagen, acting as Michaelcorleone.s lawyer, loudly demanding an apology.  At a hotel room afterwards, Kay tries to leave Michaelcorleone. taking their children with her. Michaelcorleone.orleone at first tries to mollify her, but loses his temper and hits her violently when she reveals to him that her recent miscarriage was actually an abortion to avoid providing another child into Michaelcorleone.s criminal inheritance. She also tells him that the baby was a boy, further infuriating Michaelcorleone.   Flashback  While visiting Sicily for a family vacation for the first time in 20 years, Vitocorleone.orleone is introduced to the elderly 90yearold Donciccio as the man who imports their olive oil to America, and who wants his blessing. When Donciccio asks Vitocorleone.orleone who his father was, Vitocorleone.orleone says, My father's name is Antonioandolini, and this is for you, cutting the old man's stomach open with a knife, avenging the death of his father, mother, and brother. As they make their escape from Donciccio's compound and his men, Dontomasello is shot in the leg by one of Donciccio's bodyguards. the injury gives him a permanent limp.  In April 1959, Carmellacorleone , Vitocorleone.s widow and the mother of his children, dies, and the whole Vitocorleone family is reunited for her funeral. Michaelcorleone.orleone still shuns Fredoyou, who is miserable, but relents when Connie implores him to. Michaelcorleone.orleone and Fredoyou embrace, but at the same time Michaelcorleone.orleone signals to his capo that Fredoyou's protection from harm, in effect while their mother lived, has now run out.  Michaelcorleone. Tomhagen, and Roccolampone discuss their final dealings with Hymanroth, who has been unsuccessfully seeking asylum from various countries, and was even refused entry to Israel as a returned Jew. Michaelcorleone.orleone rejects Tomhagen's advice that the Vitocorleone family's position is secure, and killing Hymanroth and the Rosatobrothers for revenge is an unnecessary risk. Later, Tomhagen pays a visit to the imprisoned Frankpentangeli on a military base and suggests that he take his own life, in the manner of unsuccessful ancient Roman conspirators who, in return, were promised that their families would be taken care of after their suicide.  With the connivance of Connie, Kay visits her children, but cannot bear to leave them and stays too long. When Michaelcorleone.orleone arrives, he coldly closes the door in her face.  The movie reaches its climax in a montage of assassinations and death, reminiscent of the end of  Part One  As he arrives at an airport to be taken into custody, Hymanroth is killed by Roccolampone, disguised as a journalist, who himself is immediately shot dead by Hymanroth.s bodyguards.  On the military base, Frankpentangeli is found dead, having followed Tomhagen's instructions and committed suicide in his bathtub.  Fredoyou is murdered by Alneri while they are fishing on Lake Tahoe  while Fredoyou is saying a Hail Mary to help catch a fish.  The penultimate scene takes place in 1941, and the Vitocorleone family is preparing a surprise birthday party for their father Vitocorleone. Sonny  introduces Carlorizzi , Connie's future husband and betrayer of Sonny, to his family. They all talk about the recent attack on Pearl Harbor by the Japanese, and Michaelcorleone.orleone shocks everybody by announcing that he has just enlisted in the United States Marine Corps. Sonny ridicules Michaelcorleone.s choice, and Tomhagen mentions how his father has great expectations for Michaelcorleone. Fredoyou is the only one who supports his brother's decision. Saltessio comes in with the cake for the party, and when Vitocorleone.orleone arrives, all but Michaelcorleone.orleone leave the room to greet him.  The final scene in the film is Michaelcorleone.orleone sitting by himself at Lake Tahoe, in silent contemplation.