In civilrights era Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer. Mississippi, 23yearold Eugeniaskeeterphelanemmastone, a recent graduate of the University of Mississippi and an aspiring writer, attends a bridge game at the home of her friend Elizabethleefoltahnao'reilly. Skeeter's girlhood friends have all gotten married and started families, but Skeeter is disturbed to see how they treat their African American maids.  Elizabethleefoltahnao's maid, Aibileenclarkvioladavis.larkvioladavis, fields a call from white trash Celiafootejessicachastain Jessica Chastain, who wants to help with a benefit being organized by the Junior League. Elizabethleefoltahnao and fellow socialite Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.olbrookbrycedallashoward, head of the local Junior League chapter, laugh at Celiafootejessicachastain's efforts to be accepted, as they don't think she's up to their social standards.  Celiafootejessicachastain mentions to Aibileenclarkvioladavis.larkvioladavis that she's looking for a maid. After refusing to use Elizabethleefoltahnao's toilet because Aibileenclarkvioladavis.larkvioladavis uses it , Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.olbrookbrycedallashoward describes the Home Health Sanitation Initiative she hopes to get passed in the state legislature. The bill would require whiteowned homes to have a separate toilet for the Negro help. This conversation is conducted within earshot of Aibileenclarkvioladavis.  Skeeter has been assigned to write the Miss Myrna housekeeping column for the local newspaper. Because she never had to do much housework herself, she asks Aibileenclarkvioladavis.larkvioladavis for assistance. In addition to doing all the cooking and cleaning for Elizabethleefoltahnao's family, Aibileenclarkvioladavis.larkvioladavis is the de facto mother of Elizabethleefoltahnao's toddleraged daughter, Maemobleyeleanorhenry and  Emmahenry, for whom Elizabethleefoltahnao shows heartrendingly little concern. Every day Aibileenclarkvioladavis.larkvioladavis tells Maemobleyeleanorhenry, You is kind. You is smart. You is important.  When Skeeter gets home, her mother, Charlotteallisonjanney, is trying on a dress. Charlotte gets Skeeter to try it on and bugs her about still being single. Skeeter mentions the job she landed, and her mother frets that she'll never get married. Charlotte asks whether Skeeter is attracted to women, as she's heard of an herbal remedy than can cure such 'unnatural' urges. Skeeter is horrified.  At dinner that night Skeeter makes a rude remark about liking girls and her mother excuses herself from the table because Skeeter has upset her cancerous ulcer. Skeeter runs to a favorite spot outdoors, a small bench under a tree, and remembers how Constantinecicelytyson.icelytyson, the maid who raised her from a child, comforted her when she wasn't asked to a dance. Skeeter desperately misses Constantinecicelytyson. who according to Charlotte quit while Skeeter was away at college. Skeeter can tell there's more to the story, but no one will tell her what really happened. Disturbed by the sudden loss of Constantinecicelytyson.icelytyson and at how Elizabethleefoltahnao and Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.olbrookbrycedallashoward treat their own maids with bigoted condescension, Skeeter conceives a writing project a book about the lives of Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer.s maids. She describes the project to Elainesteinmarysteenburgen Mary Steenburgen, an editor in New York, and receives lukewarm encouragement Elainesteinmarysteenburgen doubts that any maids will agree to participate. Skeeter approaches Aibeleen about the book, but Aibileenclarkvioladavis.larkvioladavis declines to be interviewed.  Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.s maid, Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer, disobeys Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.s order not to use the family's bathroom during a violent thunderstorm that makes a trip to the outhouse dangerous. Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.olbrookbrycedallashoward fires her over the objections of her own mother, Mrs. Walterssissyspacek. In retaliation, Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer bakes a chocolate pie into which she has baked her own feces, and takes it to Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.olbrookbrycedallashoward in a fake act of contrition. While Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.olbrookbrycedallashoward greedily eats two slices, she asks why her mother can't have a slice, to which Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer explains that it's a special pie, just for Miss Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward. A moment later Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer tells Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward. Eat my shit Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.olbrookbrycedallashoward asks if Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer's lost her mind, and Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer replies, No, ma'am, but you is about to. 'Cause you just did. Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.s mother laughs and laughs and Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.olbrookbrycedallashoward retaliates by having her mother committed to a nursing home.  Later that night, Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer's husband beats her while Aibileenclarkvioladavis.larkvioladavis listens on the phone.  At church the next day, Aibileenclarkvioladavis.larkvioladavis hears the preacher deliver a sermon about courage and changing her mind, resolves to help Skeeter with her book. She tearfully recounts to Skeeter and Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer the story of her son's death years before At age twentyfour, Aibileenclarkvioladavis.s son was run over by a truck at his workplace. The white foreman drove him to a colored hospital, dumped him on the ground, honked the horn, and left. By that point it was too late to save him, so Aibileenclarkvioladavis.larkvioladavis brought him home, where he died on the sofa right before her eyes. She expresses her pain, saying The anniversary of his death comes every year, and every year I can't breathe. But to you all, it's just another day of bridge. She becomes even more invested in the dangerous book project.  Meanwhile Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer goes to work for Celiafootejessicachastain, who's had no luck breaking into the Junior League social set and is therefore somewhat isolated. Celiafootejessicachastain pays Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer under the table because she doesn't want her husband to know that she has no domestic skills. Although she is generally suspicious of white people, Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer finds herself becoming more comfortable around Celiafootejessicachastain, who is bubbly and treats Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer with respect, but is deeply insecure. Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer improves Celiafootejessicachastain's dismal cooking skills by teaching her how to make fried chicken on her first day. They bond further when Celiafootejessicachastain suffers her fourth miscarriage. While Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer helps her into bed and soothes her, Celiafootejessicachastain is overwrought. She reveals that she married her husband Johnnymikevogel because she was pregnant, but quickly lost the baby and hasn't told him about the three failed pregnancies that followed. She worries that she will never be able to have children.  Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.s new maid, Yulemaeaunjanueellis, explains to her employer that her twin sons have graduated high school and that she and her husband have been saving for years to send them to college. However, they are short 75 on one tuition, and are on the verge of having to choose which son can go. Yulemaeaunjanueellis respectfully asks Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.olbrookbrycedallashoward for a loan, saying that she will gladly work for free until the loan is paid off. Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.olbrookbrycedallashoward refuses, explaining that it's the Christian thing to do because God does not give charity to those who are well and able. While vacuuming Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.s living room later, Yulemaeaunjanueellis finds a ring, which she pockets and later tries to pawn, hoping to get the tuition money. Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.olbrookbrycedallashoward finds out and has Yulemaeaunjanueellis arrested at the bus stop in front of the other maids, all of whom are deeply shaken by the event.  Aibileenclarkvioladavis.larkvioladavis recruits a reluctant Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer into the book project, but Elainesteinmarysteenburgen  insists the book will need at least a dozen voices  including the story of Skeeter's own relationship with Constantinecicelytyson. After Yulemaeaunjanueellis's arrest, nearly all the local maids volunteer to help with the book. Though she has changed the names of everyone involved, Skeeter remains concerned that people will recognize the maids and create more trouble for the Negro community in the wake of the recent murder of Medgarevars. Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer insists that they include the story about Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.olbrookbrycedallashoward and the chocolate pie  which she refers to as her terrible awful  as insurance against being identified an embarrassed Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.olbrookbrycedallashoward will not want anyone to know that she ingested her maid's feces and will do all she can to convince everyone that the book isn't about Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer.  Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.olbrookbrycedallashoward has several times directed Skeeter, who writes the Junior League newsletter, to include an item about her proposed sanitation initiative, but Skeeter keeps putting her off. Now Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.olbrookbrycedallashoward adds an item about a charity coat drive  the coats for which are to be dropped off at Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.s house. Skeeter includes both items, but changes coats to something else.  The next day Elizabethleefoltahnao gets a call and rushes herself, Maemobleyeleanorhenry, and Aibileenclarkvioladavis.larkvioladavis over to Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.s, where Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.olbrookbrycedallashoward is screaming, I told her to write 'coats' Not 'commodes' On Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.s lawn there sit about 40 toilets. While Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.olbrookbrycedallashoward continues her histrionics, Maemobleyeleanorhenry innocently sits on a toilet and Elizabethleefoltahnao slaps her till she sobs. Maemobleyeleanorhenry runs to Aibileenclarkvioladavis. who holds her and whispers, You is kind. You is smart. You is important.  Skeeter eventually pries the story of Constantinecicelytyson.s departure out of her mother Charlotte fired Constantinecicelytyson.icelytyson because Constantinecicelytyson.s daughter Rachellachanze refused to use the back door and embarrassed Charlotte while she was hosting an important DAR luncheon. Charlotte regretted it and tried to get Constantinecicelytyson.icelytyson to come back, going so far as to send her son, Skeeter's brother, to Constantinecicelytyson.s new home in Chicago, but by the time he got there, Constantinecicelytyson.icelytyson had died.  Skeeter's book  The Help is published anonymously, and soon everyone in Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer is reading it. True to Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer's prediction, Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.olbrookbrycedallashoward is horrified to find the chocolate pie story therein and goes out of her way to assure her friends that  The Help isn't about Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer. Skeeter splits the advance she receives evenly among all the maids, promising that more is on the way. She's offered a job at the publishing house in New York, which she is disinclined to take, but Aibileenclarkvioladavis.larkvioladavis and Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer insist that she must.  Stuartwhitworthchrislowell, whom Skeeter has been dating, breaks up with Skeeter when he finds out it was she who wrote the book. Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.olbrookbrycedallashoward also figures out who wrote the book and storms over to Skeeter's house in a drunken fury. She threatens to tell Skeeter's mother, but Charlotte kicks Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.olbrookbrycedallashoward off her property after insulting her and insinuating she knows about the pie. Charlotte tells Skeeter to take the job in New York, which Skeeter does, and Charlotte tells her she's proud of her for what she's done.  Celiafootejessicachastain works hard to prepare a lavish meal for Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer in gratitude for all she has done. Celiafootejessicachastain's husband, who has known all along that Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer is working for Celiafootejessicachastain, tells Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer she will have a job with them for as long as she wants it. Inspired, Minnyjacksonoctaviaspencer leaves her abusive husband, taking their children with her.  One of the final scenes shows Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.olbrookbrycedallashoward taking in her mail. One item is a check for 200, a donation from Celiafootejessicachastain to the Junior League benefit. When she sees that the check is made out to TwoSlice Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward. she throws a tantrum and tears it up.  Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward. falsely claiming that Aibileenclarkvioladavis.larkvioladavis has stolen some silverware, browbeats the weakwilled Elizabethleefoltahnao into firing Aibileenclarkvioladavis. When alone with Aibileenclarkvioladavis. Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.olbrookbrycedallashoward cruelly tells her that while she cannot send Aibileenclarkvioladavis.larkvioladavis to jail for her involvement in the book, she can send her for being a thief. Aibileenclarkvioladavis.larkvioladavis snaps and finally stands up to Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward. calling her a godless woman for her conniving and backstabbing ways, at which Hillyholbrookbrycedallashoward.olbrookbrycedallashoward bursts into tears of rage and leaves. Maemobleyeleanorhenry begs Aibileenclarkvioladavis.larkvioladavis not to leave her, and they share a tearful goodbye. Elizabethleefoltahnao shows a rare glimpse of emotion, tearing up as she watches Maemobleyeleanorhenry bang on the window, crying for Aibileenclarkvioladavis.larkvioladavis to return. As she walks away, Aibileenclarkvioladavis.larkvioladavis promises herself that she will become a writer, as her son had encouraged her to do.