The film opens with Prince Albert, Dukeofyork , known to his wife and family as Bertiecolinfirth.olinfirth, the second son of King Kinggeorgev, speaking at the close of the 1925 British Empire Exhibition at Wembley Stadium, with his wife Elizabethhelenabonhamcarter by his side. His stammering speech visibly unsettles the thousands of listeners in the audience. The prince tries several unsuccessful treatments and gives up, until the Duchess persuades him to see Lionelloguegeoffreyrush, an Australian speech therapist.  In their first session, Lionelloguegeoffreyrush requests that they address each other by their Christian names, a breach of royal etiquette Lionelloguegeoffreyrush tells the prince that he will be calling him Bertiecolinfirth.olinfirth from now on. At first, Bertiecolinfirth.olinfirth is reluctant to receive treatment, but Lionelloguegeoffreyrush bets Bertiecolinfirth.olinfirth a shilling that he can read perfectly at that very moment, and gives him Hamlet's To be, or not to be soliloquy to read aloud, with music blaring so that he can't hear himself. Lionelloguegeoffreyrush records Bertiecolinfirth.s reading on a gramophone record, but convinced that he has stammered throughout, Bertiecolinfirth.olinfirth leaves in a huff, declaring his condition hopeless. Lionelloguegeoffreyrush gives him the recording as a keepsake.  Later that year, after Bertiecolinfirth.s father, King Kinggeorgev Michael Gambon, makes his 1934 Christmas address, he explains to his son the importance of broadcasting for the modern monarchy in a perilous international situation. He declares that Bertiecolinfirth.s older brother, David, Prince of Wales, will bring ruin to the family and the country when he ascends the throne, and demands that Bertiecolinfirth.olinfirth train himself to fill in, beginning by reading his father's speech into a microphone for practice. After an agonizing attempt to do so made worse by his father's coaching, Bertiecolinfirth.olinfirth plays Lionelloguegeoffreyrush's recording and hears himself reciting Shakespeare fluently, amazing both himself and the Duchess.  Bertiecolinfirth.olinfirth returns to Lionelloguegeoffreyrush's treatment, where they work together on muscle relaxation and breath control, as Lionelloguegeoffreyrush gently probes the psychological roots of the stammer, much to the embarrassment of the standoffish Bertiecolinfirth. Nevertheless, Bertiecolinfirth.olinfirth reveals some of the pressures of his childhood, among them his strict father the repression of his natural lefthandedness a painful treatment with metal splints for his knockknees a nanny who favoured his elder brother, going so far as deliberately pinching Bertiecolinfirth.olinfirth at the daily presentations to their parents so that he would cry and his parents would not want to see him unbelievably, not feeding him adequately  and the death in 1919 of his little brother, Prince John. As the treatment progresses, Lionelloguegeoffreyrush and Bertiecolinfirth.olinfirth become friends and confidants.  On 20 January 1936, King Kinggeorgev dies, and David, Prince of Wales Guy Pearce ascends the throne as King Edwardviii. However, David wants to marry Wallissimpsonevebest.impsonevebest, an American divorce and socialite, which would provoke a constitutional crisisthe sovereign, as head of the Church of England, may not marry a divorced person.  At a party in Balmoral Castle, Bertiecolinfirth.olinfirth points out that David cannot marry Wallissimpsonevebest. David accuses his brother of a medievalstyle plot to usurp his throne, citing Bertiecolinfirth.s speech lessons as an attempt to groom himself. Bertiecolinfirth.olinfirth is tonguetied at the accusation, whereupon David resurrects his childhood taunt of BBBBertiecolinfirth.  At his next treatment session, Bertiecolinfirth.olinfirth has not forgotten the incident. After he briefs Lionelloguegeoffreyrush on the extent of David's folly with Wallissimpsonevebest.impson, Lionelloguegeoffreyrush insists that Bertiecolinfirth.olinfirth could be king. Outraged, Bertiecolinfirth.olinfirth accuses Lionelloguegeoffreyrush of treason and mocks Lionelloguegeoffreyrush's failed acting career and humble origins, causing a rift in their friendship.  When King Edwardviii does in fact abdicate to marry, Bertiecolinfirth.olinfirth becomes King GeorgevI. Feeling overwhelmed by his accession, the new king realises that he needs Lionelloguegeoffreyrush's help, and he and the queen visit the Logues' residence to apologise. Lionelloguegeoffreyrush's wife is stunned to meet the royals in their modest home. When the king insists that Lionelloguegeoffreyrush be seated in the king's box during his May 1937 coronation in Westminster Abbey, Archbishop of Canterbury Dr. Cosmolangderekjacobi questions Lionelloguegeoffreyrush's qualifications. This prompts another confrontation between the king and Lionelloguegeoffreyrush, who explains that he never claimed to be a doctor and had only begun practicing speech therapy by informal treatment of shellshocked soldiers in the last war. When the king still isn't convinced of his own strengths, Lionelloguegeoffreyrush sits in St. Edwardviii's Chair dismissing the Stone of Scone as a trifle, whereupon the king remonstrates with Lionelloguegeoffreyrush for his disrespect. The king then realises that he is as capable as those before him.  In September 1939, shortly after the United Kingdom's declaration of war with Germany, GeorgevI summons Lionelloguegeoffreyrush to Buckingham Palace to prepare for his radio address to the country. As the king and Lionelloguegeoffreyrush move through the palace to a tiny studio, Winstonchurchilltimothyspall reveals to the king that he, too, had once had a speech impediment but found a way to use it to his advantage. The king delivers his speech as if to Lionelloguegeoffreyrush alone, who coaches him through every moment. Afterwards, the king steps onto the balcony of the palace with his family, where thousands cheer and applaud him.  A final title card explains that during the many speeches King GeorgevI gave during World War II , Lionelloguegeoffreyrush was always present. Lionelloguegeoffreyrush and the king remained friends, and King GeorgevI made Lionelloguegeoffreyrush a Commander of the Royal Victorian Order in 1944. This high honour from a grateful King made Lionelloguegeoffreyrush part of the only order of chivalry that specifically rewards acts of personal service to the Monarch.