The Lion King takes place in the Pride Lands of Africa, where a lion rules over the other animals as king. As dawn breaks, all the animals of the Pride Lands are summoned to Pride Rock, the home of the pride of lions. Rafikirobertguillaume, a mandrill, walks through the herd and climbs the face of Pride Rock to greet his friend, King Mufasas.amesearljones. Mufasas. leads Rafikis to his mate Sarabimadgesinclair who is holding their newborn cub. Rafikis anoints the cub with fruit juices before presenting him to the gathered animals. The animals cheer and then bow to the new future king.  Meanwhile, Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons Jeremyirons, the younger brother of Mufasas. is sulking by himself behind Pride Rock. He is envious of his brother's position as king and is disgruntled at the fact that he will never be king now that Mufasas. has an heir. Mufasas. and his majordomo, a hornbill named Zazurowanatkinson, confront Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons on why he wasn't present at the ceremony that morning. Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons shrugs it off, claiming he had forgotten, and scoffs his new responsibility to show respect to the future king before wandering off.  As monsoon storms drench the Pride Lands, Rafikis is seen in his tree home, a large baobab, adding details to his newest piece of wall art. He chuckles lightly as he finishes, reciting the new cub's name, Simbas.onathantaylorthomas.  Now a budding youth, Simbas. rises early one morning and pesters his father to get up and show him the lands he's destined to rule over. Mufasas. illustrates from the top of Pride Rock that everything the light touches is their kingdom, except for a place on the horizon that is covered in shadow. Mufasas. tells Simbas. he's forbidden from ever going there. Out in the plains, Mufasas. tells Simbas. that there is a balance to all life which eventually comes full circle the Circle of Life. When Zazurowanatkinson appears with a morning report, Mufasas. takes the opportunity to give Simbas. a pouncing lesson which goes successfully, much to Zazurowanatkinson's dismay. As Simbas. gets ready to try again, Zazurowanatkinson suddenly exclaims that a group of hyenas has been seen in the Pride Lands. Mufasas. rushes off to deal with it while Zazurowanatkinson takes Simbas. home.  Simbas. returns to Pride Rock where his Uncle Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons is lurking about. Simbas. brags about his fate to be king to which Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons reacts without the slightest bit of enthusiasm. Casually, and goading Simbas.s excitement, Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons asks if Mufasas. showed him the shadow place on their morning walk. When Simbas. replies no, Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons adds that it is a dangerous place where only the bravest lions venture. Simbas. perks up, saying he's brave, and begs his uncle to tell him what's there. Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons feigns an accidental slip of the tongue by revealing that it's an elephant graveyard but praises Simbas.s cleverness. He asks that Simbas. never explore the place, but as Simbas. reassures him and leaves, Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons smiles to himself knowing full well that Simbas.s curiosity will get the better of him.  Simbas. meets up with his friend Nalaniketacalame who is being bathed by her mother, Sarafinazoeleader. He tells her about a cool place he has found, lying to Sarabi that its around the water hole. Sarabi gives them permission to go as long as Zazurowanatkinson accompanies them. Along the way, Simbas. and Nala devise a plan together to get rid of Zazurowanatkinson, which works. They then run off, Nala showing off her skills as an expert pinner, before finding themselves in the elephant graveyard. Suddenly, Zazurowanatkinson reappears and demands that they leave. Simbas. shows off his bravery by laughing in front of a large skull. Laughter echoes from within and three hyenas emerge, surrounding the cubs. Shenziwhoopigoldberg, Banzaicheechmarin, and Edjimcummings.imcummings deliberate what's to be done with the cubs, more specifically, how to eat them. The cubs and Zazurowanatkinson escape for a moment, but Zazurowanatkinson is pulled back and stuffed into a boiler which shoots him into the air. The hyenas eventually corner the cubs in an alcove and Simbas. tries to roar. The hyenas laugh and tell him to try again. A real roar is let out as Mufasas. appears and attacks the hyenas before they run off. Zazurowanatkinson reappears by Mufasas. side and Simbas. tries to say something but Mufasas. furiously reprimands him for being deliberately disobedient and leads them towards home.  Back in the Pride Lands, Mufasas. tells Zazurowanatkinson to take Nala home while he teaches Simbas. a lesson. Fearful and meek, Simbas. walks up to his father, noticing that his father's paw print is much bigger than his own. He apologizes for disobeying but says he only wanted to be brave like Mufasas. Mufasas. tells Simbas. he's only brave when he has to be. As they reconcile, Mufasas. tells Simbas. that all the stars in the night sky are the spirits of kings past and that they will always be there to guide him, as will he.  Back in the graveyard, the hyenas lick their wounds and quarrel with each other. Their fights are broken up by Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons who is greeted as a friend. Irritated that the hyenas couldnt dispose of the cubs, he proposes a plan that would eliminate both Simbas. and Mufasas. from the throne.  The next day, Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons escorts Simbas. through a gorge and puts him near a rock shaded by a sapling, telling him that Mufasas. is planning a surprise for him. Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons instructs Simbas. to stay put while he fetches Mufasas. and suggests that he practice his roar while he's away. Just above the gorge, the three hyenas lie in wait in front of a massive herd of wildebeest. Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons appears above them, signaling them. As Simbas. waits, scowling over his little roar, a chameleon climbs down from the tree. Simbas. practices roaring at it, finally letting off one loud enough to scare the chameleon and echo off all sides of the gorge. But the ground starts shaking and Simbas. looks up to see the herd of wildebeest charging down the gorge straight for him. He runs away, the wildebeest gaining, while Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons warns Mufasas. nearby that there is a stampede in the gorge and Simbas. is down there. Simbas. manages to grab hold of a broken tree, elevating himself above the wildebeests' horns while Mufasas. climbs down and runs alongside the animals. He manages to grab Simbas. in his mouth and carries him to safety, but is pulled back by the charging animals. After a tense moment, Simbas. watches his father leap onto the side of the gorge, digging his claws into the dirt and struggling up the hillside. As Mufasas. nears the top, he sees Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons standing over him. He pleads for help, but Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons digs his claws into his paws and mocks him before pushing him off. Simbas. watches helplessly as Mufasas. falls onto the stampeding herd.  As the dust settles, Simbas. runs down to look for his father. He discovers him beneath a broken tree, dead. As he mourns his loss, Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons appears and blames Simbas. for what happened. Simbas. thinking he had started the stampede that killed his father, follows his uncles advice when Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons tells him to run away and never return. Simbas. runs off as Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons instructs his hyenas to kill him. The three hyenas chase Simbas. to the edge of an incline where he tumbles into a sea of brambles. Small enough to avoid the sharp spikes, Simbas. runs through them as the hyenas barely manage to stop near the base. Unlucky Banzaicheechmarin is shoved into the brambles and emerges howling, stuck with thorns. The hyenas watch as Simbas. runs into the distant desert and decide that he will most likely die, shouting to him that if he ever comes back they will kill him.  Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons returns to Pride Rock to announce that both Simbas. and Mufasas. have perished in the stampede and assumes the role as king. The lionesses look on in fear as a horde of hyenas arrives to live alongside Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons at Pride Rock. Rafikis watches sullenly from a distance and smears the image he had once created of Simbas.  In the desert, Simbas. has collapsed under the heat and a group of vultures descends on him. Suddenly, a meerkat and a warthog charge into them, bucking and kicking them away as part of their favorite game bowling for buzzards. The warthog, Pumbaa Erniesabella, then discovers Simbas. and brings him to the attention of his meerkat companion, Timonnathanlane. Timon is initially afraid of the young lion but Pumbaa asserts that he's still little and will grow up to be on their side instead of eating them. Timon scoffs at the idea, before suggesting the very same thing as his own. Pumbaa picks Simbas. up and carries him into the shade where he's revived. Simbas. thanks them for their help before walking away. Timon and Pumbaa take pity on him and tell him that, whatever happened to him, he has to put his past behind him, citing their motto Hakunamatata no worries. They then invite Simbas. to stay with them as a fellow outcast in their jungle paradise and teach him to eat bugs rather than meat. Simbas. begins to cheer up and eventually grows into a healthy, carefree adult Matthewbroderick.  Meanwhile, the Pride Lands have been reduced to a wasteland under Scarjeremyirons. rule. Zazurowanatkinson is confined to a bone cage singing while Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons lazily lies about chewing on bones. Zazurowanatkinson mutters under his breath that he never had to do this under Mufasas. Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons reels on the name, citing that the law is to never mention Mufasas. name. Shenzi, Banzaicheechmarin, and Edjimcummings.imcummings appear, complaining that food and water have become scarce and that the lionesses refuse to hunt. Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons suggests they eat Zazurowanatkinson as Banzaicheechmarin lets slip Mufasas. name before he corrects himself under Scarjeremyirons. glare. Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons then dismisses them.  Back in the jungle, Simbas. Timon, and Pumbaa lie down together after a meal of bugs to look up at the night sky. Pumbaa asks what the sparkling lights in the sky are to which Timon replies that theyre fireflies that got stuck in the big, bluishblack thing. Pumbaa says he'd always thought they were burning balls of gas billions of miles away, a theory which Timon debunks due to Pumbaa's flatulent nature. They ask Simbas. what he thinks. Answering only to their begging, he says he was once told that the lights are great kings of the past watching over them. Timon starts cracking up over the thought of royal dead guys watching them, but Simbas. wanders off, saddened over the memory of his father. He sighs and collapses onto a bunch of wild flowers, spreading their petals and leaves to the wind. The wind carries them back to the Pride Lands where Rafikis, sitting atop his tree, grabs them. He takes them back into the tree where he sniffs them and contemplates the apparent familiar smell. Suddenly it strikes him Simbas. must be alive. Crazed with happiness, he quickly smears a mane around the head of his Simbas. drawing, stating that it is time.  Timon and Pumbaa are walking through the jungle together when Pumbaa becomes distracted by a large rhino beetle. Hungry, he follows it to the edge of the jungle and sneaks up on it as its perched on a log facing some grassland. His eye then catches something in the tall grass as the beetle flies away. Pumbaa screams as a lioness emerges from the grasses and gives chase. Hearing Pumbaa, Timon comes running and finds him stuck in the roots of a tree. He tries to free Pumbaa as the lioness draws closer. She leaps forward but Simbas. jumps in and begins to fight with her while Timon cheers him on. He tries to knock her down but she flips him over and pins him to the ground. Simbas. recognizes this move and his old friend, Nalamoirakelly. When he reveals himself, Nala is shocked and happy to see him again. Simbas. introduces her to Pumbaa and Timon, who is less than happy about the reunion since Nala had tried to eat Pumbaa. Nala tells Simbas. that everyone in the Pride Lands thought he was dead after Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons told them about the stampede. Nervous, Simbas. asks what else Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons told them, but Nala says that it doesn't matter now that he's alive and the rightful king. Simbas. excuses Timon and Pumbaa to speak to Nala alone. As they walk through the jungle together the romantic settings encourage their feelings for each other, though Simbas. is hesitant to talk to Nala about his past. She tries to get Simbas. to go back to the Pride Lands with her, telling him that everything has fallen into disarray since Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons took the throne. He refuses, explaining that he shouldnt worry about things that happened in the past, which angers Nala. She tells Simbas. that returning to the throne is his responsibility but he storms off and walks out of the jungle to an open field. He tries to justify his decision before yelling at the night sky that Mufasas. wasnt there for him and feeling solemn that it was his fault.  He then hears singing coming from a tree behind him and sees Rafikis in the branches. Irritated, he walks away. Rafikis follows him and asks him a series of rhetorical questions and chanting seemingly nonsensical words. Convinced that the baboon is crazy and confused, Simbas. turns to walk away when Rafikis reveals that he knows Simbas. is Mufasas. son. Rafikis then runs off and Simbas. follows. He finds Rafikis mediating on a rock and asks if he knew his father. Rafikis says I know your father, to which Simbas. responds that he died. Rafikis laughs, saying that Mufasas. is alive, and leads Simbas. through a thicket of trees and vines. They stop at a reflecting pool and Rafikis instructs Simbas. to look into it. Seeing only his reflection at first, Simbas. looks harder and sees an image of Mufasas. Rafikis says that Mufasas. lives within him as a large storm cloud appears overhead and a specter of Mufasas. speaks out to Simbas. saying that he has forgotten who he is and that he must take his rightful place as the true king of Pride Rock. Simbas. begs his father to stay but the apparition disappears, echoing that Simbas. must remember who he is. As Simbas. contemplates the message and the change in the winds, Rafikis wallops him over the head with his staff. Outraged and in pain, Simbas. asks what he did that for. Rafikis says that it doesn't matter because its in the past, but though the past may still hurt, one can either run from it or learn from it. He swings his staff again and Simbas. ducks before grabbing the staff and throwing it away. Then Rafikis watches and cheers as Simbas. runs off, announcing that he's going back.  Timon and Pumbaa are sleeping together as Nala approaches them and nudges them awake, frightening them at first. She asks if theyve seen Simbas. but Rafikis appears overhead and declares that the king has returned. Confused by this statement and Rafikis mysterious arrival and departure, Timon and Pumbaa listen as Nala tries to explain that Simbas. has decided to go back to the Pride Lands to take his place as king.  Crossing the desert, Simbas. finally arrives in the Pride Lands to find it dark and barren. He eyes Pride Rock with a look of vengeance when Nala, Timon, and Pumbaa appear beside him. They all agree to help Simbas. reclaim the throne, though Timon is less than impressed by the landscape theyre fighting for. They sneak over to Pride Rock and discover that its crawling with hyenas. Simbas. offers Timon and Pumbaa as live bait and they do put on a colorful performance for the hungry hyenas while he and Nala move closer. Simbas. instructs Nala to rally the lionesses while he looks for Scarjeremyirons. He finds him at the base of Pride Rock, calling loudly for Sarabi. Hyenas nip at her heels as she approaches and Simbas. looks on mournfully. Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons questions her as to why the lionesses refuse to hunt. Sarabi explains that the herds have moved on and their only chance for survival is to leave Pride Rock. Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons refuses and, when Sarabi compares him to Mufasas. he cruelly hits her. Having seen enough, Simbas. appears on a ledge and runs down to comfort his mother. Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons backs away, fearful that its Mufasas. that has returned, but when he realizes who it really is, he shoots a hateful glare at Shenzi, Banzaicheechmarin, and Edjimcummings. Simbas. confronts Scarjeremyirons. demanding that he step down from the throne or fight, but sly Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons asks why things must end in violence and says he would feel terrible if he were responsible for the death of a family member. Though Simbas. says he's put the past behind him, Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons questions whether the lionesses have done the same. When Nala questions this, Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons prompts Simbas. to tell them all who was responsible for Mufasas. death. Sadly, Simbas. confesses that he was, though it was an accident. Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons uses this and accuses Simbas. of being a murderer, backing him up to the end of Pride Rock to the point where Simbas. slips over the edge, dangling by his paws. Lightning strikes and ignites a fire beneath him as Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons looks over him, remarking that this was just the way Mufasas. looked before he died. Then Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons grabs Simbas. paws and whispers in his ear that he was the one to kill Mufasas.  Enraged, Simbas. leaps over the edge and pins Scarjeremyirons. choking him to confess the truth to the lionesses. Fighting immediately breaks out between the hyenas and the lions. Timon and Pumbaa join the fray with their signature bowling moves and Rafikis impresses with some acrobatic martial arts. When Timon is cornered by Shenzi and Banzaicheechmarin in the lions den with Zazurowanatkinson, Pumbaa comes to the rescue, his fury provoked when Banzaicheechmarin accidentally calls him a pig.  Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons manages to slip away from the fighting but is followed by Simbas. They meet at the top of Pride Rock surrounded by flames where Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons begs for his life, saying that he's family and that the hyenas are the real enemy. Having heard this, the hyenas back away growling. Simbas. relents, saying that he's not like Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons and tells him to run away and never return. Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons meekly walks past him but sends a pile of embers into Simbas. face, blinding him for a moment. Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons then attacks Simbas. and a fierce fight ensues. Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons manages to knock Simbas. down and leaps at him but, using the technique Nala had mastered in her pinning, Simbas. flips Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons with his hind legs over the edge of Pride Rock. Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons tumbles down the rock face and lands at the base. He groggily stands up and notices the hyenas approaching him from between the flames. He greets them as his friends but they respond that he said they were the enemy. Scarjeremyirons.eremyirons looks at them in horror as they lick their lips and surround him before attacking.  Rain begins to fall and Simbas. returns to the lionesses where he greets his mother and Nala. Rafikis rattles his staff and points it towards the tip of Pride Rock. He bows to Simbas. who gives him a hug, and says it is time. As everyone watches, and as the rain washes away dust and bones, Simbas. ascends Pride Rock, gazing one last time at the heavens before letting out a mighty roar and sealing his position as king. The lionesses join in, hailing their new king. Some time later, the animals of the Pride Lands gather once again at Pride Rock, cheering at Simbas. and Nala as they overlook the kingdom. Rafikis comes between them and holds up their newborn cub for all to see.