Private eye Samspade and his partner Milesarcher are approached by Miss Wonderly to follow a man, Floydthursby, who allegedly ran off with her younger sister. The two accept the assignment because the money is good, but Samspade also implies that the woman looks like trouble, though she projects wholesome innocence.  That night, Detective Tompolhaus informs Samspade that Milesarcher has been shot and killed while tailing Floydthursby. Even later that night, two officers visit Samspade at his apartment and inquire about Samspade.s whereabouts in the last few hours. Samspade asks what the visit is really about. The officers say that Floydthursby was also killed and that Samspade is a suspect, since Floydthursby likely killed Milesarcher. They have no evidence against Samspade at the moment, but tell him that they will be conducting an investigation into the matter.  The next day, Samspade gets a visit from Milesarcher.s wife, with whom he has been having an affair. The widow asks Samspade if he killed Miles so that they could be together. Samspade dismisses her and tells her to leave, and coldly orders his secretary Effie to remove all of Milesarcher.s belongings from the office. He then goes to a new address left in a note from his client, whose name he learns is Brigido'shaughnessy'shaughnessy. He also finds out that Brigido'shaughnessy'shaughnessy never had a sister, and Floydthursby was her acquaintance who had betrayed her.  Later, Samspade is visited by another man, Joelcairo, who offers Samspade 5000 if the private eye can retrieve a figurine of a black bird that has recently arrived. While Samspade has no idea what the man is talking about, he plays along. Suddenly, Cairo pulls a gun on Samspade. and declares his intention to search Samspade.s office. But when he approaches Samspade to search his person, Samspade disarms him and knocks him unconscious. After cataloguing Cairo's belongings and questioning him in return, Samspade returns Cairo's firearm and allows the man to search his office. Following this, Samspade is again contacted by Brigido'shaughnessy'shaughnessy. She offers her sympathies for the death of his partner. Samspade senses a connection between O'Shaughnessy and Cairo, and casually mentions that Cairo has contacted him. O'Shaughnessy gets extremely nervous when she hears this. She tells Samspade that she must meet with Cairo, and asks Samspade to arrange a meeting. Samspade agrees.  When Cairo and Brigido'shaughnessy'shaughnessy meet, they make references that the reader and Samspade don't initially comprehend. Cairo says he is ready to pay for the black figurine. Brigido'shaughnessy'shaughnessy, however, says she does not have it at the moment. They also refer to a mysterious figure, G , whom they seem to be scared of. The two then continue to talk about some events that happened overseas. Eventually, O'Shaughnessy insinuates that Cairo is a homosexual, and Cairo insinuates that O'Shaughnessy simply uses her body to get what she wants, and the two begin to fight. At this point, the police show up, coincidentally, to talk to Samspade. Samspade greets them at the door, but refuses to let them in. The officers say they know Samspade was having an affair with Milesarcher.s wife just as they are about to leave, they hear Cairo screaming for help. They force their way into Samspade.s apartment, and Samspade invents a story that involves describing how Cairo and O'Shaughnessy were just playacting. The officers seem to accept, if not believe, Samspade.s story, but they take Cairo with them down to the station for some grilling. Samspade sends Brigido'shaughnessy'shaughnessy to stay with Effie, where she will be safe.  The next morning, Samspade makes his way to the hotel where Cairo is staying. Cairo shows up disheveled, saying that he was held in police custody through the night. Meanwhile, Samspade notices that he's being tailed by some kid named Wilmercook. He confronts the gunsel1, and tells him that both he and his boss, G, will have to deal with him at some point. He later receives a call from Caspergutman, who wishes to meet with him. Rheagutman. a huge person weighing over 300 lbs, says he will pay handsomely for the black bird. Samspade implies that he can get the item , but wants to know what it is first.  Rheagutman tells him that the figurine was a gift from the Island of Malta to the King of Spain a few hundred years ago, but was lost on ship in transit. It was covered with fine jewels, but acquired a layer of black enamel at some time, to conceal its value . Rheagutman learned of its whereabouts seventeen years ago, and has been looking for it ever since. He traced it to the home of a Russian General, then sent three of his 'agents'  to get it. The latter supposedly did retrieve the figurine, but learned of its value and decided to keep it for themselves. Samspade starts to get dizzy at this point , and when he goes to leave, Wilmercook trips him and knocks him out by kicking his temple.  When Samspade awakens, he returns to his office and tells the story of the Maltese Falcon to Effie. Soon afterwards, an injured man, identified as Captain Jacobi of Lapaloma, shows up at the office he drops a package on the floor and then dies of gunshot wounds. Samspade opens the package, and finds the figurine falcon. Samspade is called away from the office. To prevent losing the item, Samspade stores the package at a bus station lost luggage counter and mails himself the collection tag. He first goes to the dock where Lapaloma was anchored, but learns that a fire had been started on board. He then proceeds to the place Rheagutman said she was when she phoned earlier. There he finds a druggedup, seventeenyear old girl, her stomach all scratched up by a pin in attempts to keep herself awake, who just manages to give him some information about the whereabouts of Brigido'shaughnessy, which turns out to be a false lead.  When he arrives back at his apartment, he finds O'Shaughnessy in a shadowy doorway. Inside, Wilmercook, Cairo, and Rheagutman are there waiting. Rheagutman hands Samspade 10,000 in cash in exchange for the bird. Samspade takes the money, but in addition says that they need a fall guy to take the blame for the murders of at least Floydthursby and Jacobi, if not Milesarcher as well. Reluctantly, both Cairo and Rheagutman agree to make Wilmercook the fall guy. Rheagutman proceeds to tell Samspade the missing pieces of the story. The night that Floydthursby was killed, he was first approached by Wilmercook and Rheagutman. The latter attempted to reason with him, but Floydthursby remained loyal to Brigido'shaughnessy'shaughnessy and refused to cooperate. Later things escalated, then Wilmercook shot Floydthursby. Also, Brigido'shaughnessy'shaughnessy had seduced Captain Jacobi and hid the Falcon with him. Later, Brigido'shaughnessy'shaughnessy instructed Jacobi to deliver the package to Samspade. Once Rheagutman learned of this fact, he attempted to remove Samspade from the situation with the spiked drink. Wilmercook managed to shoot the captain, but Jacobi still got to Samspade.s office to deliver the figurine. After finishing his story, Rheagutman warns Samspade to be very careful with Brigido'shaughnessy'shaughnessy as she is not to be trusted.  Samspade places a call to his secretary, Effie, and asks her to go the office and pick up the figurine. Effie brings it to Samspade.s apartment, and Samspade hands the package to Rheagutman. who at this time is overwhelmed with excitement. He checks the figurine, but quickly learns that it is a fake. He realizes with dismay that the Russian must have discovered the true value of the falcon and made a copy. During this time, Wilmercook manages to escape from Samspade.s apartment. Rheagutman quickly regains composure, and decides to go back to Europe to continue the search. Before he leaves, Rheagutman asks Samspade for the 10,000. Samspade returns 9000, saying he's keeping the remainder for his time and expenses. Then Cairo and Rheagutman leave Samspade.s apartment.  Immediately after Cairo and Rheagutman leave, Samspade phones the police department and tells them the entire story. Wilmercook killed Jacobi and Floydthursby. He also tells them what hotel Rheagutman is staying at and urges them to hurry, since Rheagutman and Cairo are leaving town soon. Afterwards, Samspade angrily asks Brigido'shaughnessy'shaughnessy why she killed Milesarcher. At first, Brigido'shaughnessy'shaughnessy acts horrified at this accusation, but seeing that she cannot lie anymore, she drops the act. She wanted to get Floydthursby out of the picture so that she could have the Falcon for herself, so she hired Milesarcher to scare him off. When Floydthursby didn't leave, she killed Milesarcher and attempted to pin the crime on Floydthursby. When Floydthursby was later killed himself, she knew that Rheagutman was in town and that she needed another protector, so she came back to Samspade.  However, she says that she's also in love with Samspade and would have come back to him anyhow. Samspade coldly replies that the penalty for murder is most likely twenty years, and he'll wait for her until she gets out. If they hang her, Samspade says that he'll always remember her. He goes on to say that while he despised Milesarcher, the man was his partner, and that he's going to turn her in to the police for his murder as that was a line he could not cross in the industry of detective work. Brigido'shaughnessy'shaughnessy begs him not to, but he replies that he has no choice. When the police get Rheagutman. Rheagutman will finger Samspade and Brigido'shaughnessy'shaughnessy as accomplices. Thus the only way Samspade can avoid getting charged is to say he played both sides against each other. He tells Brigido'shaughnessy'shaughnessy that he has some feelings for her, but that he simply can't trust her. Just before the police arrive, Brigido'shaughnessy'shaughnessy asks Samspade if the Falcon had been real, and he'd gotten the entire 10,000, would it have made a difference. Samspade replies that, while she shouldn't be so sure that he's crooked, more money would have been one more item on her side.  When the police finally show up at Samspade.s apartment, Samspade immediately turns over Brigido'shaughnessy'shaughnessy as Milesarcher.s killer. They tell Samspade that the kid Wilmercook was waiting for Rheagutman at the hotel and shot him when he arrived. Samspade also hands over the 1000 bill, and the falcon to the police as evidence.