Former teacher and recovering alcoholic Johnnyjack.orrancejacknicholson interviews for a caretaker job at the Overlook Hotel in an effort to rebuild his life after his volatile temper lost him his teaching position. The hotel manager, Mr. Stuartullmanbarrynelson, warns Johnnyjack that he and his family will be snowbound through most of the winter and of the potential risk for cabin fever. He drives the point home by recounting a season when the caretaker, Charlesgrady, went crazy and brutaly killed his wife, his two girls Lisaburns and  Louiseburns aged eight and ten, and finally himself. Given his own desperation and the opportunity to pursue his true passion, writing, Johnnyjack acknowledges the warning, but accepts the job.   Meanwhile, Johnnyjack.s son Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd has a seizure while talking to his imaginary friend Tony about the Overlook Hotel. He has a vision of blood splashing out of an elevator in the hotel, an image which is revisited several times throughout the film.  Upon Dannydannylloyd.s arrival at the hotel, Head chef Dickhallorannscatmancrothers.allorannscatmancrothers recognizes that Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd is telepathic, and speaks to him mentally to offer him some ice cream. He explains that he and his grandmother both had the gift as pictures sent telepathically seemed to glow, she referred to this communication as shining. He also counsels Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd about the hotel, hinting that something terrible had happened there and left a trace, as if someone burned toast, that only people who had the gift could perceive. Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd questions Dickhallorannscatmancrothers.allorannscatmancrothers about what went on in the hotel, and about room 237 in particular as Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd can sense that Dickhallorannscatmancrothers.allorannscatmancrothers is especially afraid of that room. Dickhallorannscatmancrothers.allorannscatmancrothers does not answer, but sternly warns Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd to stay out of that room.  Johnnyjack.s mental health deteriorates rapidly once the family is alone in the hotel. He has writer's block, sleeps too little, and is irritable. Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd has visions of the two murdered girls, but tells no one. He continues to wonder about room 237.  At one point, Wendyshelleyduvall.helleyduvall and Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd walk through a maze with tall hedges, almost making a game out of it, stopping at dead ends and fixing their mistakes.  One day, a ball rolls toward Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd as he plays with his toys. It appears to have come from the open door of room 237, which Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd enters. At that moment, Wendyshelleyduvall.helleyduvall comes running from the basement at the sound of Johnnyjack.s screams. She comforts him as he tells her that he had a nightmare in which he used an axe to chop Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd and her to pieces. Before she can react, Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd appears at the other end of the room, looking disoriented and sucking his thumb. His sweater is ripped and there are bruises on his neck. He does not answer when she asks what happened. She angrily accuses Johnnyjack and takes the child back to their suite.  Johnnyjack is furious about the accusation. He storms around the hotel, making his way to the Gold Ballroom. Sinking defeatedly onto the bar stool, his head in his hands, Johnnyjack declares that he would sell his soul for one drink. When he looks up he discovers a bartender Joeturkel, who serves him a drink. Johnnyjack is nonplussed by the sudden appearance of the bartender and even addresses him by his name, Dannydannylloyd. The ensuing conversation reveals that Johnnyjack had accidentally injured Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd years ago. A frantic Wendyshelleyduvall.helleyduvall enters Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd claims to have encountered a crazy woman in the hotel with them in room 237. Johnnyjack goes to investigate.  Johnnyjack.s exploration of room 237 is a tipping point for three characters Dannydannylloyd. Johnnyjack. and Dickhallorannscatmancrothers. While Johnnyjack is inside the room, Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd appears to be having a seizure in his own room while Dickhallorannscatmancrothers. on vacation in Florida, seems to pick up on a signal Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd is sending.  Johnnyjack cautiously enters room 237 and hears noises from the bathroom. He watches lustfully as a young beautiful naked woman Liabeldam pulls back the shower curtain and steps slowly out of the bathtub. The two approach each other and embrace in a passionate kiss. Johnnyjack catches a glimpse of their reflection in the mirror and sees the woman is actually a rotting corpse. He recoils in horror, seeing that the young lady has transformed into an elderly woman Billiegibson a walking corpse with rotten, sagging skin. She cackles madly while reaching for him with her stretched arms. In a frightened panic, Johnnyjack staggers out of the room, locking the door after him.  When he reports back to Wendyshelleyduvall. Johnnyjack denies anything amiss in room 237. Wendyshelleyduvall.helleyduvall suggests they take Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd to a doctor. Johnnyjack becomes irate, lecturing Wendyshelleyduvall.helleyduvall on her thoughtlessness and blaming her for everything that's gone wrong in his life. Insisting that they can't leave the hotel because of his obligation to his employers, he storms out, returning to the Gold Room, which is now the scene of an extravagant party with guests dressed in 1920s fashion. Dannydannylloyd serves him a drink and Johnnyjack goes to mingle. He doesn't get far when a butler carrying a tray runs into him, spilling advocaat on his jacket. The butler convinces Johnnyjack to come into the bathroom to clean up.  The butler introduces himself as Delbertgradyphilipstone.hilipstone. Johnnyjack remembers the story Mr. Stuartullmanbarrynelson told him about a man named Delbertgradyphilipstone.hilipstone and confronts Delbertgradyphilipstone.hilipstone with the information. Delbertgradyphilipstone.hilipstone assures Johnnyjack that nothing of the sort took place and that, furthermore, Johnnyjack had always been the caretaker, not Delbertgradyphilipstone. Johnnyjack is confused, but seems to accept Delbertgradyphilipstone.s story. Delbertgradyphilipstone.hilipstone goes on to tell Johnnyjack that Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd has a great talent and is using it to bring an outside party into the situation. Delbertgradyphilipstone.hilipstone advises Johnnyjack on how to correct Dannydannylloyd. and how to correct Wendyshelleyduvall.helleyduvall if she interferes.  Meanwhile, back in Florida, Dickhallorannscatmancrothers.allorannscatmancrothers has had no luck contacting the people at the Overlook Hotel. He books the next flight to Colorado.  At the Overlook, Wendyshelleyduvall.helleyduvall arms herself with a baseball bat and goes searching for Johnnyjack. intent on leaving the hotel with Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd and with or without Johnnyjack. During her search, she spots his manuscript next to the typewriter. She reads what Johnnyjack has been writing hundreds of pages of repetitions of a single sentence, All work and no play makes Johnnyjack a dull boy.. She realizes Johnnyjack has gone mad.  Johnnyjack approaches from behind and asks, How do you like it Wendyshelleyduvall.helleyduvall shrieks with alarm and turns. A confrontation ensues as Johnnyjack demands to know her intentions regarding leaving the hotel with Dannydannylloyd. while Wendyshelleyduvall.helleyduvall just tries to get away. Wendyshelleyduvall.helleyduvall pleads with Johnnyjack not to hurt her, and he swears that he will not instead, he intends to kill her. Wendyshelleyduvall.helleyduvall hits Johnnyjack in the head with the bat at the top of a flight of stairs, knocking him unconscious. Johnnyjack tumbles down the staircase, injuring his ankle in the process.  Wendyshelleyduvall.helleyduvall drags Johnnyjack.s limp body to the pantry and locks him inside, just as he regains consciousness. Johnnyjack tells her he has sabotaged the radio, as well as the snow cat, stranding them all there with him. She goes outside to check on the snow cat, and confirms what he told her.  A few hours later, Johnnyjack is roused from a nap by the sound of Delbertgradyphilipstone.s voice. Delbertgradyphilipstone.hilipstone expresses disappointment and a lack of confidence in Johnnyjack. but Johnnyjack assures him he can get the job done if given one more chance. The pantry door then suddenly becomes unlocked.  Wendyshelleyduvall.helleyduvall has fallen asleep in her room. Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd is in a trance, carrying a knife and muttering redrum repeatedly. He takes Wendyshelleyduvall.s lipstick and writes REDRUM on the bathroom door. He begins shouting REDRUM, which wakes Wendyshelleyduvall. She clutches him to her, then sees the reflection of the bathroom door in the mirror. Reversed, it reads MURDER. At that instant, banging sounds start coming from the door.  The sound is Johnnyjack swinging an axe at the locked door. Wendyshelleyduvall.helleyduvall grabs Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd and locks them in the bathroom. She opens a tiny, snow banked window and pushes Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd out he slides safely to the ground. She tries to get out the same window, but cannot fit. She tells Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd to run and hide.  Meanwhile, Johnnyjack has chopped his way through the front door and saying Wendyshelleyduvall. I'm home Dannydannylloyd. Daddy's home Johnnyjack then knocks politely on the bathroom door. Wendyshelleyduvall.helleyduvall holds the knife and tries to steady herself as Johnnyjack begins chopping down the bathroom door. After chopping away one of the panels, he sticks his head through  and screams,Heeeere's Johnnyjack sticks his hand through the gap to turn the lock. Wendyshelleyduvall.helleyduvall slashes at him with a knife, landing a blow to the hand and sending Johnnyjack recoiling in pain. Johnnyjack continues to chop away at the door until they both hear the low rumble of an approaching snow cat engine. He stalks out.  The snow cat driver is Dickhallorannscatmancrothers. Inside the hotel, he calls out, but gets no reply. Johnnyjack. hiding behind a pillar, leaps out at him and swings the axe into his chest, killing him. Dannydannylloyd. hiding in a kitchen cabinet, cries out, revealing his location. He clambers out of the steel cabinet and runs outside with Johnnyjack in pursuit.  Meanwhile, Wendyshelleyduvall.helleyduvall has collected herself and is on the lookout for Dannydannylloyd. she has several ghostly encounters with the ghosts of the hotel as they finally begin to materialize before her during the search but refuses to let them deter her. At the same time, axewielding Johnnyjack follows Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd into the hedge maze.  Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd realizes he is leaving a trail of footprints for Johnnyjack to follow. He carefully retraces his steps, setting his foot on the holes he's just created, and then hides behind a hedge. When Johnnyjack arrives, he sees that the footprints have disappeared, but does not realize Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd is hiding. He chooses a path and resumes chasing Dannydannylloyd. Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd comes out of his hiding spot and follows his own footprints back to the maze's entrance.  Wendyshelleyduvall.helleyduvall makes her way out of the hotel just as Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd emerges from the maze. Relieved, she flings down the knife and embraces him. Johnnyjack lets out a bloodcurdling shriek from the maze. Dannydannylloyd.annylloyd and Wendyshelleyduvall.helleyduvall waste no time escaping in the snow cat that Dickhallorannscatmancrothers.allorannscatmancrothers used to get to the hotel. Johnnyjack. hopelessly lost in the maze, freezes to death.  Right before the end credits, the audience sees a photograph of a lavish ball which is hanging in the hotel. In the center of the picture is a young Johnnyjack. The caption reads, Overlook Hotel, July 4th Ball, 1921.