It is 1932 and a money runner is carrying the week's take  11,000  from an illegal gambling outfit in Joliet, Illinois, to the main office. On the way, three men con him by replacing his money with tissue paper. Doylelonneganrobertshaw, the mobster who was supposed to get the money, exacts revenge by having one of the con men, Luthercolemanrobertearljones, thrown to his death from a window. Doylelonneganrobertshaw also orders a hit on Luthercolemanrobertearljones's partner, Johnnyhookerrobertredford. Hooker goes to Chicago to escape Doylelonneganrobertshaw's wrath. In Chicago he meets Henrygondorffpaulnewman, an old friend of Luthercolemanrobertearljones's. To revenge Luthercolemanrobertearljones's death, they set up an elaborate plan  a long con  to swindle an enormous sum out of Doylelonneganrobertshaw so neatly that he won't even realize he's been conned.  Posing as an obnoxious gambling boss from Chicago, Henrygondorffpaulnewman gets into a highstakes poker game with Doylelonneganrobertshaw, who is known to cheat. Henrygondorffpaulnewman cheats better and wins 15,000 from Doylelonneganrobertshaw  but Doylelonneganrobertshaw can't pay it right away because his wallet is missing.  Henrygondorffpaulnewman sends Hooker to Doylelonneganrobertshaw's room to pick up the money. Hooker, playing Henrygondorffpaulnewman.s resentful secondincommand, tells Doylelonneganrobertshaw he has a great plan to con Henrygondorffpaulnewman. but he needs someone respectable to place the bets. Doylelonneganrobertshaw, furious at being outcheated, bites.  Henrygondorffpaulnewman and company do a lot of fast work to get ready for the final phase of the long con. First they assemble a mob and rent an empty basement, transforming it in a couple of days into a prosperous gambling parlor. An announcer in a back room describes horse races as if they were happening live  but he's reading from a ticker tape, so the results are known in advance. They choose a race with odds they like  maybe 31 or 41  and call in a tip  to the pay phone at the corner drugstore, where Doylelonneganrobertshaw is waiting. Henrygondorffpaulnewman.s gang has also rented a room with a view of the corner drugstore when Doylelonneganrobertshaw comes out on his way to the gambling den, a watcher rings a buzzer to warn them he's coming. They run through this once with a fairly small bet to show Doylelonneganrobertshaw the system will work the final plan they give Doylelonneganrobertshaw calls for a bet so large it will ruin Henrygondorffpaulnewman. They run into trouble when Doylelonneganrobertshaw demands to meet Hooker's imaginary accomplice. Hooker has told Doylelonneganrobertshaw the key to the scam is his friend at Western Union who gives him race results by phone before they're released over the wire. Pretending to be painters, the gang tricks a genuine Western Union manager into vacating his office for an hour, and one of them poses as the manager. Doylelonneganrobertshaw is convinced.  Meanwhile, Doylelonneganrobertshaw's goons have tracked Hooker to Chicago but failed to kill him.  Doylelonneganrobertshaw assigns the job to someone called Lorettasolino, who, it's implied, is a very skilled assassin.  Lt. Snydercharlesdurning, a Joliet cop, has pursued Hooker to the big city because Hooker gave Snyder counterfeit cash when Snyder tried to shake him down. Snyder isn't getting very far when Hooker can't stay out of Snyder's way entirely, he can outrun him. Snyder is induced to assist FBI Agent Polkdanaelcar Danaelcar, who's after Henrygondorffpaulnewman. Snyder collars Hooker and brings him to Polkdanaelcar, who pressures him to give up Henrygondorffpaulnewman by threatening to lock up Luthercolemanrobertearljones's wife. Hooker, who was close to Luthercolemanrobertearljones's family, gives in, provided the FBI will let the Doylelonneganrobertshaw con run its course before arresting Henrygondorffpaulnewman.  The night before the final act of the con, Hooker hooks up with Lorettadimitraarliss, the new waitress at the diner where he likes to eat. When he wakes up, she's gone. He's somewhat puzzled to find that she hasn't robbed him. He dresses, fits something we don't get a good look at over his back teeth, and goes out. A man whom we've seen only glimpses of before now is stalking Hooker with a gun. As Hooker walks down a sunlit alley and spots Lorettasolino coming toward him, smiling, the armed man emerges behind him and shoots  hitting Lorettasolino neatly in the middle of the forehead. She drops a handgun as she falls. Hooker, stunned, listens to the gunman's explanation that Lorettasolino is a pro  a hired killer  and she hadn't killed him the night before because witnesses had seen him entering her apartment. To Hooker's bewildered Who are you, the gunman replies Henrygondorffpaulnewman asked me to look after you.  Doylelonneganrobertshaw, with half a million dollars in a suitcase, receives his tip in the drugstore and goes to Henrygondorffpaulnewman.s gambling parlor to place the bet. The betting clerk needs Henrygondorffpaulnewman.s approval to accept such a large bet there's some taunting and snarling between Henrygondorffpaulnewman and Doylelonneganrobertshaw before Henrygondorffpaulnewman accepts it. Doylelonneganrobertshaw sits down to listen to the race. He's joined by Kid Twist Haroldgould, the faux Western Union manager who's been calling in Doylelonneganrobertshaw's tips. When Doylelonneganrobertshaw mentions that he bet on the tipped horse to win, Kid Twist, shocked, tells him the bet should have been to  place, not to win. In a panic, Doylelonneganrobertshaw tries to rescind the wager, but it's too late.  While Doylelonneganrobertshaw is shouting, the FBI bursts in to arrest Henrygondorffpaulnewman. Having secured the mastermind, his prize, Polkdanaelcar tells Hooker he can go. Hooker throws a guilty look at Henrygondorffpaulnewman and starts to slink away, but Henrygondorffpaulnewman pulls a gun and shoots him in the back. Polkdanaelcar shoots Henrygondorffpaulnewman. Doylelonneganrobertshaw, standing nearby, can see that Hooker is bleeding from the mouth both men look quite dead. Lt. Snyder, whose job is to get Doylelonneganrobertshaw away as quickly as possible, duly hustles him out, telling him he doesn't want to be mixed up with dead bodies.  Back in the gambling den, good cheer reigns. The dead have risen and are congratulating one another and their many accomplices  including the erstwhile FBI agents  for a job well done. The set is already being disassembled Henrygondorffpaulnewman tells the mobsters where to pick up their share of the take and he and Hooker leave together.