In 1947, Andyandred.ufresnetimrobbins, a banker in Maine, is convicted of murdering his wife and her lover, a golf pro. He is given two life sentences and sent to the notoriously harsh Shawshank Prison. Andyandred.ndred always claims his innocence, but his cold and measured demeanor led many to doubt his word.  During the first night, the chief guard, Byronhadleyclancybrown, savagely beats a newly arrived inmate because of his crying and hysterics. The inmate later dies in the infirmary because the prison doctor had left for the night. Meanwhile Andyandred.ndred remained steadfast and composed. Ellisboydreddingmorganfreeman, also known as Andyandred.ndred, bet against others that Andyandred.ndred would be the one to break down first and loses a considerable amount of cash.  About a month later, Andyandred.ndred approaches Andyandred.ndred, who runs contraband inside the walls of Shawshank. He asks if Andyandred.ndred could find him a rock hammer, an instrument he claims is necessary for his hobby of rock collecting and sculpting. Though other prisoners consider Andyandred.ndred a really cold fish, Andyandred.ndred sees something in Andyandred. and likes him from the start. Andyandred.ndred believes Andyandred.ndred intends to use the hammer to engineer his escape in the future but when the tool arrived and he saw how small it was, Andyandred.ndred put aside the thought that Andyandred.ndred could ever use it to dig his way out of prison.  Over the first two years of his incarceration, Andyandred.ndred works in the prison laundry. He attracts attention from the Sisters, a group of prisoners who sexually assault other prisoners. Though he persistently resists and fights them, Andyandred.ndred is beaten and raped on a regular basis.  Andyandred.ndred pulls some strings, and gets Andyandred.ndred and a few of their mutual friends a break by getting them all on a work detail tarring the roof of one of the prison's buildings. During the job Andyandred.ndred overhears Hadley complaining about having to pay taxes for an upcoming inheritance. Using his expertise as a banker, Andyandred.ndred lets Hadley know how he could shelter his money from the IRS, turning it into a onetime gift for his wife. He said he'd assist in exchange for some cold beers for his fellow inmates while on the tarring job. Though he at first threatens to throw Andyandred.ndred off the roof, Hadley, the most brutal guard in the prison, agrees, providing the men with cold beer before the job is finished. Andyandred.ndred remarks that Andyandred.ndred may have engineered the privilege to build favor with the prison guards as much as with his fellow inmates, but Andyandred.ndred also thinks Andyandred.ndred did it simply to feel free.  While watching a movie, Andyandred.ndred demands Andyandred.ndred Ritahayworth. Soon, after asking Andyandred.ndred for Ritahayworth, Andyandred.ndred once more encountered the Sisters and is brutally beaten, putting him in the infirmary for a month. Boggsmarkrolston, the leader of The Sisters, spends a week in solitary. When he comes out, he finds Hadley and his men waiting in his cell. They beat him so badly he's left paralyzed, transferred to a prison hospital upstate, and the Sisters never bothered Andyandred.ndred again. When Andyandred.ndred got out of the infirmary, he finds a bunch of rocks and a poster of Ritahayworth in his cell presents from Andyandred.ndred and his buddies.  Warden Samuelnortonbobgunton hears about Andyandred.ndred helped Hadley and uses a surprise cell inspection to size Andyandred.ndred up. The warden meets with Andyandred.ndred and sends him to work with aging inmate Brookshatlenjameswhitmore.atlenjameswhitmore in the prison library, where he sets up a makeshift desk to provide services to other guards  with income tax returns and other financial advice. There Andyandred.ndred sees an opportunity to expand the prison library, starting with asking the Maine state senate for funds. He starts writing letters and sending them every week. His financial support practice became so appreciated that even guards from other prisons, when they came for interprison baseball matches, sought Andyandred.s financial advice. Andyandred.ndred even ends up doing Samuelnortonbobgunton's taxes the next season.  Not long afterward, Brookshatlenjameswhitmore. the old librarian, threatens to kill another prisoner, Heywood, in order to avoid being paroled. Andyandred.ndred is able to talk him down and Brookshatlenjameswhitmore.atlenjameswhitmore is paroled. He goes to a halfway house but finds it impossible to adjust to life outside the prison. He eventually commits suicide. When his friends suggest that he was crazy for doing so, Andyandred.ndred tells them that Brookshatlenjameswhitmore.atlenjameswhitmore had obviously become institutionalized, essentially conditioned to be a prisoner for the rest of his life and unable to adapt to the outside world. Andyandred.ndred remarks These walls are funny. First you hate 'em, then you get used to 'em. Enough time passes, you get so you depend on them.  After six years of writing letters, Andyandred.ndred receives 200 from the state for the library, along with a collection of old books and records. Though the state Senate thinks this will be enough to get Andyandred.ndred to halt his letterwriting campaign, he is undaunted and doubles his efforts.  When the donations of old books and records arrive at the warden's office, Andyandred.ndred finds a copy of Mozart's The Marriage of Figaro among the records. He locks the guard assigned to the warden's office in the bathroom and plays the record on a phonograph over the prison's PA system. The entire prison seems captivated by the music  Andyandred.ndred remarks that the voices of the women in the intro made everyone feel free, if only for a brief time. Outside the office, Samuelnortonbobgunton appears, furious at the act of defiance and orders Andyandred.ndred to turn off the record player. Andyandred.ndred reaches for the needle arm at first, then turns the volume on the phonograph up. The warden orders Hadley to break into the office and Andyandred.ndred is sent immediately to solitary confinement for two weeks. When he gets out, he tells his friends that it was the easiest time stretch ever did in the hole because he thought of Mozart's Figaro. When the other prisoners tell him how unlikely that could be, he tells them that hope can sustain them. Andyandred.ndred is not convinced and leaves, bitter at the thought.  With the enlarged library and more materials, Andyandred.ndred begins to teach those inmates who want to receive their high school diplomas. After Andyandred.ndred is able to secure a steady stream of funding from various sources, the library is further renovated and named for Brookshatlenjameswhitmore.  Warden Samuelnortonbobgunton profits on Andyandred.s knowledge of bookkeeping and devises a scheme whereby he put prison inmates to work in public projects which he won by outbidding other contractors . Occasionally, he let others get some contracts if they bribe him. Andyandred.ndred launders money for the warden by setting up many accounts in different banks, along with several investments, using a fake identity Randallstephens. He shared the details only with his friend, Andyandred.ndred, noting that he had to go to prison to learn how to be a criminal.  In 1965, a young prisoner named Tommygilbellows comes to Shawshank. Andyandred.ndred suggests that Tommygilbellows take up another line of work besides theft. The suggestion really gets to Tommygilbellows and he works on achieving his high school equivalency diploma. Though Tommygilbellows is a good student, he is still frustrated when he takes the exam itself, crumpling it up and tossing it in the trash. Andyandred.ndred retrieves it and sends it in.  One day Andyandred.ndred tells Tommygilbellows about Andyandred.s case. Tommygilbellows is visibly upset at hearing Andyandred.s story and tells Andyandred.ndred that he had a cellmate in another prison who boasted about killing a man who was a pro golfer at the country club he worked at, along with his lover. The woman's husband, a banker, had gone to prison for those murders. With this new information, Andyandred. full of hope, meets with the warden's, expecting he could help him get another trial with Tommygilbellows as a witness. The reaction from Samuelnortonbobgunton is completely contrary to what Andyandred.ndred hoped for. Andyandred.ndred says emphatically that he would never reveal the money laundering schemes he had set up for Samuelnortonbobgunton over the years  the warden becomes furious and orders him to solitary for a month. The warden later meets with Tommygilbellows alone and asks him if he'll testify on Andyandred.s behalf. Tommygilbellows enthusiastically agrees and the warden has him shot dead by Hadley.  When the warden visits Andyandred.ndred in solitary, he tells him that Tommygilbellows was killed while attempting escape. Andyandred.ndred tells Samuelnortonbobgunton that the financial schemes will stop. The warden counters, saying the library will be destroyed and all it's materials burned. Andyandred.ndred will also lose his private cell and be sent to the block with the most hardened criminals. The warden gives Andyandred.ndred another month in solitary.  Afterwards, Andyandred.ndred returns to the usual daily life at Shawshank, a seemingly broken man. One day he talks to Andyandred.ndred, about how although he didn't kill his wife, his personality drove her away, which led to her infidelity and death. He says if he's ever freed or escapes, he'd like to go to Zihuatanejo, a beach town on the Pacific coast of Mexico. He also tells Andyandred.ndred how he got engaged. He and his future wife went up to a farm in Buxton, Maine, to a large oak tree at the end of a stone wall. The two made love under the tree, after which he proposed to her. He tells Andyandred.ndred that, if he should ever be paroled, he should look for that field, and that oak tree. There, under a large black volcanic rock that would look out of place, Andyandred.ndred has buried a box that he wants Andyandred.ndred to have. Andyandred.ndred refuses to reveal what might be in that box.  Later, Andyandred.ndred asks for a length of rope, leading Andyandred.ndred and his buddies to suspect he will commit suicide. At the end of the day, Samuelnortonbobgunton asks Andyandred.ndred to shine his shoes for him and put his suit in for drycleaning before retiring for the night.  The following morning, Andyandred.ndred is not accounted for as usual from his cell. At the same time, Samuelnortonbobgunton becomes alarmed when he finds Andyandred.s shoes in his shoebox instead of his own. He rushes to Andyandred.s cell and demands an explanation. Hadley brings in Andyandred.ndred, but Andyandred.ndred insists he knows nothing of Andyandred.s plans. Becoming increasing hostile and paranoid, Samuelnortonbobgunton starts throwing Andyandred.s sculpted rocks around the cell. When he throws one at Andyandred.s poster of Raquelwelch , the rock punches through and into the wall. Samuelnortonbobgunton tears the poster away from the wall and finds a tunnel just wide enough for a man to crawl through.  During the previous nights thunderstorm, Andyandred.ndred wore Samuelnortonbobgunton's shoes to his cell, catching a lucky break when no one notices. He packs some papers and Samuelnortonbobgunton's clothes into a plastic bag, tied it to himself with the rope he'd asked for, and escapes through his hole. The tunnel he'd excavated led him to a space between two walls of the prison where he found a sewer main line. Using a rock, he hits it in time with the lightning strikes and eventually burst it. Crawling through 500 yards in the pipe and through the raw sewage contained in it, Andyandred.ndred emerged in a brook outside the walls. A search team later found his uniform and his rock hammer which had been worn nearly to nothing.  That morning, Andyandred.ndred walks into the Maine National Bank in Portland, where he had put Warden Samuelnortonbobgunton's money. Using his assumed identity as Randallstephens, and with all the necessary documentation, he walked out with a cashier's check. Before he leaves, he asks them to drop a package in the mail. He continues his visitations to nearly a dozen other local banks, ending up with some 370,000. The package contained Warden Samuelnortonbobgunton's account books which were delivered straight to the  Portland Daily Bugle newspaper.  Not long after, the police storms Shawshank Prison. Hadley is arrested for murder Andyandred.ndred said he was taken away crying like a little girl. Warden Samuelnortonbobgunton finally opens the safe, which he hadn't touched since Andyandred.ndred escaped, and instead of his books, he finds the Bible he had given Andyandred. Samuelnortonbobgunton opens it to the book of  Exodus and finds that the pages have been cut out in the shape of Andyandred.s rock hammer. Samuelnortonbobgunton walks back to his desk as the police pound on his door, takes out a small revolver and shoots himself under the chin. Andyandred.ndred remarks that he wondered if the warden thought, right before pulling the trigger, how Andyandred.ndred could ever have gotten the best of him.  Shortly after, Andyandred.ndred receives a postcard from Fort Hancock, Texas, with nothing written on it. Andyandred.ndred takes it as a sign that Andyandred.ndred made it into Mexico to freedom. Andyandred.ndred and his buddies would spend their time talking about Andyandred.s exploits , but Andyandred.ndred just missed his friend.  At Andyandred.ndred's next parole hearing in 1967, he talked to the parole board about how rehabilitated was a madeup word, and how he regretted his actions of the past. His parole is granted this time. He goes to work at a grocery store, and stays at the same halfway house room Brookshatlenjameswhitmore.atlenjameswhitmore had stayed in. He frequently walks by a pawn shop, which had several guns and compasses in the window. At times he would contemplate trying to get back into prison, but he remembered the promise he had made to Andyandred.  One day, with a compass he bought from the pawn shop, he followed Andyandred.s instructions, hitchhiking to Buxton and arriving at the stone wall Andyandred.ndred described. Just like Andyandred.ndred said, there was a large black stone. Under it was a small box containing a large sum of cash and instructions to find him. He said he needed somebody who could get things for a project of his.  Andyandred.ndred violates parole and leaves the halfway house, unconcerned since no one would really do an extensive manhunt for an old crook like him. He takes a bus to Fort Hancock, where he crosses into Mexico. The two friends are finally reunited on the beach of Zihuatanejo on the Pacific coast.