Promising FBI Academy student Claricestarling is pulled from her training at the FBI Training Facility at Quantico, Virginia by Jackcrawford of the FBI's Behavioral Science Unit, who tasks her with presenting a VICAP questionnaire to the notorious Dr. Hanniballecter, a brilliant forensic psychiatrist and incarcerated cannibalistic serial murderer. After learning the assignment relates to the pursuit of vicious serial killer Buffalobill, Starling travels to the Baltimore State Hospital for the Criminally Insane and is led by Dr. Frederickchilton to Hanniballecter, a sophisticated, cultured man restrained behind thick glass panels and windowless stone walls. Although initially pleasant and courteous, Hanniballecter grows impatient with Starling's attempts at dissecting him and viciously rebuffs her. As Starling departs, another patient flings fresh semen onto her face, enraging Hanniballecter who calls Starling back and offers a riddle containing information about a former patient. The solved riddle leads to a rentastorage lot where the severed head of Benjaminraspail is found. Starling returns to Hanniballecter. who links Raspail to Buffalobill and who offers to help profile Buffalobill if he is transferred to a facility far from the venomous, careerist Dr. Chilton.  Hours and miles away, Buffalobill abducts Catherinemartin, the daughter of United States Senator Ruthmartin. Starling is pulled from Quantico and accompanies Jackcrawford to West Virginia, where the body of Buffalobill's recentlydiscovered victim resides, and where Starling helps perform the autopsy and extracts the chrysalis of a Death'shead Hawkmoth from the victim's throat. At Quantico, as news of Catherinemartin's abduction sweeps the country, Jackcrawford authorizes Starling to offer Hanniballecter a fake deal promising a prison transfer if he provides information that helps profile Buffalobill and rescue Catherinemartin. Instead, Hanniballecter begins a game of quid pro quo with Starling, offering comprehensive clues and insights about Buffalobill in exchange for events from Starling's traumatic childhood. Unaware to both Starling and Hanniballecter. Dr. Frederickchilton tapes the conversation and after revealing Starling's deal as a sham, offers to transfer Hanniballecter in exchange for a deal of his own making. Hanniballecter agrees and following a flight to Tennessee reveals Buffalobill's real name, physical description and past address to Senator Ruthmartin and her entourage of FBI agents and Justice Department officials.  As the manhunt begins, Starling travels to Hanniballecter.s special cell in a local Tennessee courthouse, where she confronts him about the false information he gave the Senator. Hanniballecter refuses Starling's pleas and demands she finish her story surrounding her worst childhood memory. After recounting her arrival at a relative's farm, the horror of discovering their lamb slaughterhouse and her fruitless attempts at rescuing the lambs, Hanniballecter rebuffs her, leaving her with her case file before she is escorted out of the building by security guards. Later that evening, Hanniballecter escapes from his cell. The local police storm the floor, discovering one guard barely alive and the other disemboweled and strung up on the walls. Paramedics transport the survivor to an ambulance and speed off while a SWAT team searches the building for Hanniballecter. As the team discover a body in the elevator shaft, the survivor in the ambulance peels off his own face, revealing Hanniballecter in disguise, who kills the paramedics and escapes to the airport.  After notified of Hanniballecter.s escape, Starling pores over her case file, analyzing Hanniballecter.s annotations before realizing that the first victim, Fredericabimmel, knew Buffalobill in real life before he killed her. Starling travels to Bimmel's hometown and discovers that Bimmel was a tailor and has dresses with templates identical to the patches of skin removed from Buffalobill's victims. Realizing that Buffalobill is a tailor fashioning a woman suit of real skin, she telephones Jackcrawford, who is already on the way to make an arrest, having crossreferenced Hanniballecter.s notes with Johnshopkinshospital and finding a man named Jamegumb. Jackcrawford instructs Starling to continue interviewing Bimmel's friends while he leads a SWAT team to Jamegumb's business address in Calumet City, Illinois. Starling's interviews lead to the house of Jackgordon, who Starling soon realizes is actually Jamegumb, and draws her weapon just as Jamegumb disappears into his basement. Starling pursues him, discovering a screaming Catherinemartin in the dry well just before the lights in the basement go out, leaving her in complete darkness. Jamegumb stalks Starling in the dark with night vision goggles and prepares to shoot her when Starling, hearing the machinations of his revolver, swivels around shoots Jamegumb dead.  Days later at the FBI Academy graduation party, Starling receives a phone call from Hanniballecter, now in the Bahamas. As Hanniballecter assures Starling he has no plans to pursue her, he excuses himself from the phone call, remarking that he's having an old friend for dinner, before hanging up and following Chilton through the streets of the village.