Sights of Vienna, Austria, flash across the screen as an Englishman's voice Carolreed describes the racketeer trade in the postWorld War II era. He describes that many amateurs have tried to get involved in this career, but he implies that they always end up dead. Meanwhile, the city is quartered into sectors policed by occupying forces  the English, the Russians, the Americans and the French  though they barely can handle the criminal element and don't even speak the same language. The city is devastated , covered in jagged rubble. He begins to tell the story of an American coming to Vienna named Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins, who has come to accept a job from an old friend.  Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins Josephharbin.arbin Cotten gets off his train and is surprised that his friend, Harrylime.ime, isn't at the station to meet him. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins goes to Harrylime.ime.s flat, but the building porter Paulhrbiger, through extremely broken English, tells him that he just missed Harrylime.ime.s friends leaving with a coffin. The porter says that Harrylime.ime was killed, hit by a truck right in front of the building.  Hollymartinsjosephcotten.osephcotten goes to a massive graveyard and finds a funeral service. An Englishman Trevorhoward hovering nearby informs Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins it is Harrylime.s funeral. Standing by the grave are two middleaged men, both of whom eye Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins suspiciously. Also in attendance is a pretty woman Alidavalli who doesn't notice him. After the funeral, Hollymartinsjosephcotten.osephcotten begins to walk back into town, and the Englishman offers him a ride.  The stranger introduces himself as Majorcalloway, a police officer in the British sector of Vienna, and offers to buy him a drink. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins agrees and proceeds to drink while reminiscing about Harrylime. It is revealed that Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins is an author of pulp Western novellas. As he talks about his old friend, Calloway says that it's better that Harrylime.ime is dead, since he was a murderer and a racketeer. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins takes umbrage at Calloway's suggestion and reaches to punch him, but he's quickly socked in the face by fellow English soldier Sergeant Painebernardlee.ernardlee. Painebernardlee.ernardlee apologizes and escorts the tipsy Hollymartinsjosephcotten.osephcotten to the nearby hotel, explaining to Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins earnestly that he is a huge fan of his books. Calloway sets Hollymartinsjosephcotten.osephcotten up at the hotel for the night, telling him he can catch a plane out of Vienna the next day. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins promises he will prove him wrong about Harrylime.ime.  Happening by on the way out of the hotel is another Englishman named Crabbinwilfridhydewhite. Painebernardlee.ernardlee tells Crabbinwilfridhydewhite that Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins is an author, and though Crabbinwilfridhydewhite has never heard of him, he is excited to have a writer in Vienna. Crabbinwilfridhydewhite introduces himself to Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins and explains he represents the British cultural propaganda department in Vienna. He invites Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins to stay and give lecture in a few days at the department's meeting. Figuring he could use the extra time in town as an opportunity to look into Harrylime.s death, Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins accepts the offer.  Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins is then called on the hotel phone by a man who identifies himself as Baronkurtz. The man says he is a friend of Harrylime.s. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.osephcotten and Baronkurtz set up a meeting at a nearby cafe. When they meet, Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins recognizes Kurtzernstdeutsch as one of the two men at Harrylime.s funeral. Baronkurtz is carrying one of Hollymartinsjosephcotten.s books, which he says Harrylime.ime had given to him, and a small dog.  Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins proceeds to grill Baronkurtz about the circumstances of Harrylime.s death. Baronkurtz and Hollymartinsjosephcotten.osephcotten go out to the street in front of Harrylime.s apartment building to reconstruct the events of the accident. Baronkurtz's version is this he was walking out of Harrylime.s flat with him when Harrylime.ime saw a Romanian friend of his, Popescusiegfriedbreuer. across the street. Harrylime.ime then began to cross the street to greet Popescusiegfriedbreuer.iegfriedbreuer when a truck drove up and ran Harrylime.ime over. Then Baronkurtz and Popescusiegfriedbreuer.iegfriedbreuer carried Harrylime.ime to the sidewalk. Shortly thereafter, Harrylime.s doctor, Dr. Winkelerichponto, happened by. The doctor was too late to save Harrylime. however. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins asks Baronkurtz to help him investigate further, but Baronkurtz says as he is an Austrian, he must be careful with the police. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.osephcotten tells him the police think Harrylime.ime was a racketeer. Baronkurtz points out most everyone in Vienna is mixed up in some sort of racket, but mostly nothing serioustires, stamps, etc.  Baronkurtz describes how after Harrylime.ime was hit, he instructed him to see after Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins when he arrived. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins points out the porter, who is near them outside the apartment sweeping, told him that Harrylime.ime died instantaneously. Baronkurtz looks the porter over and says that Harrylime.ime died before the ambulance arrived, but that he was still alive immediately after he was run over. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins tells Baronkurtz he wants to speak to Popescusiegfriedbreuer. but he says Popescusiegfriedbreuer.iegfriedbreuer has left Vienna. At Hollymartinsjosephcotten.s insistence, Baronkurtz tells him the identity of the pretty woman at the funeral. He does not remember her name, but he tells Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins she was a companion of Harrylime.s who works as an actress at a local theater. Baronkurtz tells Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins he lives in the Russian sector but works at the Casanova Club, and if he has any need for advice to contact him there. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins then tries to question the porter again. However, the porter's wife, overhearing the conversation, looks frightened and calls for her husband to come inside.  That evening, Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins goes to theater where the woman, named Annaschmidt, is performing. He introduces himself as a friend of Harrylime.ime's, and she tells him to come back after the show. When he meets her afterwards, Hollymartinsjosephcotten.osephcotten finds out that Annaschmidt, so depressed over Harrylime.s death that she declares she wishes she too were dead, had been dating Harrylime.ime for some time and that Harrylime.ime had allegedly asked Baronkurtz that Annaschmidt be taken care of as well just before he died. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.osephcotten thinks it funny that Harrylime.ime had time to think of both him and Annaschmidt right after the accident, even though he supposedly died instantly, or at least very quickly. Annaschmidt also reveals that the man driving the truck was Harrylime.s own driver. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins tells Annaschmidt that he has a feeling that there's something suspicous about Harrylime.s death  that seemingly everyone he knew was at the scene  and he convinces her to help him speak to the porter again.  Annaschmidt and Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins go to talk with the porter in Harrylime.s apartment. Annaschmidt pokes around the flat, seemingly reminiscing, and halfheartedly translates the German for Hollymartinsjosephcotten. The porter tells them that Harrylime.s neck was broken in such a way that he had to have died immediately therefore, there was no way he could have asked Baronkurtz that Annaschmidt and Hollymartinsjosephcotten.osephcotten be taken care of. He also says that three men carried Harrylime.ime to the sidewalk, not two , as Baronkurtz had claimed. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins asks the porter why he did not reveal this information at the inquest, and the porter responds he didn't want to be mixed up in the situation and that he wasn't the only witness who did not give a complete testimony. As Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins tries to convince the porter take his story to the police, the conversation becomes heated. The porter, who becomes fearful, insists in German that Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins leave and never come back. An elfin boy spies them arguing just before Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins and Annaschmidt leave.  Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins walks Annaschmidt back to her place and they are met by Annaschmidt's landlady Hedwigbleibtreu, who frantically tells her that the police are inspecting her apartment. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins and Annaschmidt go upstairs to find Majorcalloway and Sergeant Painebernardlee.ernardlee supervising as her apartment is torn apart. Calloway asks for her passport, which he and Painebernardlee.ernardlee inspect and then suspect is fake. The Major tells her he must keep it. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins tells Calloway that he suspects Harrylime.ime may have been murdered, but he says he doesn't care how Harrylime.ime died as long he's dead. He suggests Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins should go back to the airport and go home. As they continue to go through her things, including love letters to her from Harrylime. Annaschmidt explains quietly to Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins about her passport, which she reveals Harrylime.ime forged for her. She explains that she is Czechoslovakian and that the Russians would claim her and have her deported if it was found out that she was not Austrian. Calloway takes Annaschmidt back with the other officers to the police station, and on her way out, Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins asks her to remind him of Harrylime.s doctor's name so he can go talk with him.  Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins goes to ask Dr. Winkelerichponto about Harrylime.s death. The doctor was the man standing by Baronkurtz at the funeral. In his home, Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins sees the same small dog that Baronkurtz was carrying earlier. The doctor tersely adheres to Baronkurtz's take on the events, and he confirms that he arrived after Harrylime.ime was already dead. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins asks if it's possible that Harrylime.ime was pushed in front of the truck, if he knows if Harrylime.ime could have died instantaneously or not, and if there was a third man who helped carry Harrylime.s body to the sidewalk. Dr. Winkelerichponto tells Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins he can give no additional opinion as to the circumstances of the accident, since he did not witness the event and the injuries would have been the same no matter how it happened. He also says there was no third man on the scene by the time he arrived.  At the international police station, Annaschmidt sees a Russian officer flipping through her papers as she waits. Calloway comes in and questions her about Harrylime. He shows her a picture of man named Josephharbin.arbin and asks if she knows who he is. Annaschmidt says she's never seen him before. He explains that Harbin is a worker in a military hospital, but she insists she does not know him. He accuses her of lying, which he says is stupid because he could help her with her passport. He explains that in one of her confiscated letters, Harrylime.ime had written her to instruct her to place a call to the Casanova Club for someone named Josephharbin. Annaschmidt barely remembers that the message for Josephharbin.arbin was something about meeting Harrylime.ime at his home. Calloway tells her that the day she telephoned that message to Josephharbin.arbin, he disappeared. Annaschmidt insists Calloway has Harrylime.ime all wrong, and he sends her away, though he keeps her passport and belongings.  Annaschmidt then goes with Hollymartinsjosephcotten. who was waiting outside the station for her, to the Casanova Club. Crabbinwilfridhydewhite is inside just leaving, and he reminds Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins of the lecture he is to give the next night. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins and Annaschmidt sit at the bar and see Baronkurtz playing violin for a dining couple. Baronkurtz looks dismayed to see Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins again and, when questioned, insists that only he and Popescusiegfriedbreuer.iegfriedbreuer carried Harrylime.ime and that the porter must have been mistaken. Baronkurtz says that Popescusiegfriedbreuer.iegfriedbreuer happens to be at the club that night, despite his earlier claim that Popescusiegfriedbreuer.iegfriedbreuer was out of town. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins meets Popescusiegfriedbreuer.iegfriedbreuer, whose account of Harrylime.s death mirrors Baronkurtz's account in all aspects. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins again asks if a third man helped him and Baronkurtz carry Harrylime.s body, but Popescusiegfriedbreuer.iegfriedbreuer denies this, asking where Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins heard such a thing. He tells him the porter at Harrylime.s building had heard the accident and witnessed the aftermath. This is evidently news to Popescusiegfriedbreuer. who was unaware that the porter was a witness since he had not given testimony at the inquest.  Popescusiegfriedbreuer.iegfriedbreuer is then seen arranging and attending a mysterious meeting on a bridge with Baronkurtz, Dr. Winkelerichponto, and an unseen fourth man.  The following morning, while Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins wanders thoughtfully in front of Harrylime.s former home, the porter leans out the window and apologizes to Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins for his previous demeanor, arranging to meet with him later to tell him something important. When the porter closes the window and turns around, he reacts with surprise and terror to an unseen person who has presumably snuck up behind him.  Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins goes to visit Annaschmidt to tell her the porter wants to talk to him again. She is especially depressed about Harrylime. and she begs Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins to tell her stories about him. They talk about Harrylime. painting him as a mischievous boy who never grew up. She insists they go see the porter together, accidentally calling him Harrylime. which lightly miffs Hollymartinsjosephcotten.  As they walk up to the front of the porter's building, they see a crowd gathered near the door. Annaschmidt immediately wants to leave, assuming it to be trouble. Hollymartinsjosephcotten. however, walks over to the crowd, where he is told the porter has been murdered. The little boy who had seen Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins and the porter arguing begins insisting something about Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins loudly in German. Slowly, the assembled crowd turns to stare at Hollymartinsjosephcotten. Annaschmidt explains that the crowd thinks he is the murderer. He grabs Annaschmidt and they run away. The crowd pursues them, with the little boy in the lead. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins and Annaschmidt duck into a movie theater, losing the mob. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins tells Annaschmidt to go back home where she'll be safe.  Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins eventually makes his way back to his hotel, where he asks the desk clerk for a taxi driver. The clerk indicates that an imposinglooking man standing there is a driver already waiting for him. With Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins in the back seat, the driver speeds off recklessly without Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins saying where he wants to go. Hollymartinsjosephcotten. very frightened, asks him if he is taking him to be killed. The driver does not answer and finally stops in front of a doorway. Hollymartinsjosephcotten. sure that he's about to be murdered, starts to run, but the door opens. Crabbinwilfridhydewhite greets him, and Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins realizes it is time for the speaking engagement that he'd agreed to.  Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins struggles with the intellectual questions posed to him. The audience begins to dissipate, while Crabbinwilfridhydewhite agonizes over the misstep of hiring Hollymartinsjosephcotten. Unexpectedly, Popescusiegfriedbreuer.iegfriedbreuer arrives, and he asks Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins if he's working on a book. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins says that he's writing a book called The Third Man and that it's based on fact. Popescusiegfriedbreuer.iegfriedbreuer suggests that Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins stick to fiction, but Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins insists he will finish this book. As the meeting is closed, two thuggishlooking men arrive and get whispered orders from Popescusiegfriedbreuer. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins takes off up the spiral staircase at the back of the building and the two thugs pursue him. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins ducks into in unlocked room, where he is bitten by an unexpected parrot. He makes his way out of a window and finds refuge from the thugs in a car hidden among the wartime rubble.  Once safe, Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins goes to the international police station to tell Calloway about his findings. Calloway, though now convinced that Harrylime.ime was murdered, is still indifferent and explains that it's better that Harrylime.ime is dead. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins insists he is wrong, so the Major offers to show Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins why he believes Harrylime.ime is guilty of racketeering and murder. Calloway then presents a myriad of evidence, proving that Harrylime.ime obtained penicillin illegally, diluted it, and sold it to warravaged, poor hospitals, resulting in the painful deaths of many people.  Many of his victims were children with meningitis the lucky ones, the Major says, died, and the unlucky ones lived and went insane. He shows Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins a slide of the hospital worker Josephharbin.arbin, who he explains helped steal the penicillin for Harrylime. The police forced Harbin to give them information about Harrylime.s operation, but he has recently gone missing. Hollymartinsjosephcotten. now convinced of Harrylime.s guilt, is devastated by the news about his old friend and agrees to go back to America.  After Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins goes out to a bar and gets drunk, he buys flowers and takes them to Annaschmidt in her apartment. He drunkenly calls to Annaschmidt's cat, who is indifferent to him, and Annaschmidt explains the only person the cat ever liked was Harrylime. The cat slips out the window. Annaschmidt lets Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins know that Calloway also told her about Harrylime.s misdeeds, and though she now believes in his guilt as well, it doesn't change her feelings for Harrylime.  We then see a man outside Annaschmidt's window on the street. He ducks into a dark doorway. Annaschmidt's cat, who has run out of the apartment, curls up at his feet.  In the apartment, Annaschmidt says Harrylime.ime is better off dead, but not because he was punished for doing wrong, as Calloway believes. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins agrees he's better off dead, and he no longer cares who killed him or why. He believes there was justice in Harrylime.s death, and he says maybe he would have even killed Harrylime.ime himself. He also tells Annaschmidt that he's fallen in love with her, but she makes it apparent that the feeling isn't mutual, as she thinks only of Harrylime.  Disappointed and still drunk, Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins stumbles outside to return to his hotel, but he sees the obscured man standing in the dark doorway, the cat still at his feet. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins shouts at him to stop spying and to show himself, but he does not move. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.s noise causes a woman upstairs to turn on her light and open her window to yell at him to be quiet. The light from the woman's apartment shines down into the street, revealing the man in the doorway to be Harrylime.ime Orson Welles. Harrylime.ime smiles at a shocked Hollymartinsjosephcotten. but slips away when the woman turns off her light. Seeing Harrylime.s shadow running off down a nearby street, Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins takes pursuit. He follows the sound of footsteps down a passageway that opens into a plaza, but once Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins reaches the end of the passageway, Harrylime.ime is already gone.  Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins brings Calloway and Painebernardlee.ernardlee out the area to reenact the events, but they are unconvinced. However, suddenly a light bulb goes off for Calloway as he eyes a booth in the plaza. Opening the door on the booth, Calloway shows Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins that it is an entranceway to the Vienna sewers, with steps leading downwards. They follow the stairs into the sewers, where they see an endless range of tunnels for Harrylime.ime to use as escape routes.  That night, Calloway leads a team to excavate Harrylime.s grave. When they open the coffin, the body inside is revealed to be that of Josephharbin.arbin.  The international police come to Annaschmidt's apartment for her as she lies in bed crying in Harrylime.s old pajamas. Annaschmidt surely assumes this is because of her forged papers. As she is led into the station, Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins sees her and yells at her that he's seen Harrylime.ime alive. Calloway is standing in the hallway as the police lead her through the station, and he instructs them to bring her into his office. He interrogates her alone, asking when she saw Harrylime.ime last. He explains in his coffin was Josephharbin.arbin's body. She looks thrilled as she realizes this does mean that Harrylime.ime is alive, and she asks where he is. Calloway thinks she might know, but it is clear she was not aware he has been alive either. He says they know Harrylime.ime is hiding in the Russian sector , and that if she helps them catch Harrylime.ime. Calloway will help her with the Russians, who are about to interrogate her about her passport. She cannot help him, though, and he tells her they will catch him eventually, as Vienna is a closed city. She says that she wishes that he was dead, as he would be safe from all of you.  The next morning, Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins goes to visit Baronkurtz's apartment in the Russian sector. Baronkurtz looks over his balcony and invites Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins up, but Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins refuses, as he shouts back that he wants to speak only with Harrylime. Dr. Winkelerichponto comes out on the balcony also, and he and Baronkurtz exchange concerned looks. Though they admit nothing about Harrylime. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins insists that he come meet him at the nearby fairgrounds.  As Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins waits next to the Ferris wheel, he spots Harrylime.ime walking up to warmly greet him, acting as if nothing has changed. They go for a ride on the Ferris wheel. Harrylime.ime shows no remorse for his penicillin racket, asking Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins about the people far below them if Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins would really care if one of those little dots stopped moving forever, especially if he were paid for each dot. When Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins reveals that he told the police about seeing Harrylime. Harrylime.ime is very unhappy that Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins has been talking to the cops. Harrylime. staring at Hollymartinsjosephcotten. clearly considers shooting him and throwing him out of the Ferris wheel to his death. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins takes him seriously enough to wrap his arm tightly around the car door should Harrylime.ime try anything. However, when Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins also says that they've dug up his grave and found Harbin, Harrylime.ime changes his mind and jokes that neither one of them would ever think of doing something to the other. Harrylime.ime also reveals that he was the one who informed the Russian police about Annaschmidt's forged passport as payment for them letting him hide out in the Russian sector. As they finish the ride, Harrylime.ime offers to cut Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins in on his schemes, but without waiting for an answer, Harrylime.ime leaves quickly, telling him that they can meet again any time he wants, but no police.  Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins goes to meet with Calloway and tells him he knows where Harrylime.ime is staying. The Major tries to convince him to help them trap Harrylime.ime by arranging to meet him at a cafe in the international zone. However, though Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins knows his friend has done wrong, he is unwilling to be the one to doom him. Just then, the Russian officer comes in with Annaschmidt's passport, explaining to Calloway that she must be deported. The Major mentions to him that the Russians were supposed to be helping the British police with Harrylime.ime, but the Russian says the two cases are not related and that they will get to his case eventually. He leaves the room, Annaschmidt's passport sitting on Calloway's desk. Calloway, seemingly resigned to Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins giving up in Harrylime.s case, talks about how helpful Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins could have been in getting Harrylime.ime. but Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins is staring at Annaschmidt's papers sitting on the desk. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins asks what price would Calloway pay for his help, and he tells him to name it.  Painebernardlee.ernardlee accompanies Annaschmidt to board the train that will save her from the Russian authorities. Just as she settles into her car, she spies Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins trying to see her off inconspicuously. Understanding that her leaving must have been part of a deal Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins struck with Calloway, she gets off the train and confronts Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins about why he's there. He admits he has agreed to betray Harrylime.ime in turn for her getting away. Annaschmidt makes it evident that she's disgusted with Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins and could never do anything to hurt Harrylime. She leaves angrily, ripping up her passport, and allows the train to depart with her belongings.  Now despondent, Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins asks that Calloway and Painebernardlee.ernardlee just take him to the airport, having changed his mind to help them catch Harrylime. He shows them Annaschmidt's torn up papers. Calloway agrees, but on the way to the airport, the Major makes an extra stop. It is the children's ward of a hospital, where Calloway shows Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins the devastating effects of Harrylime.s dilluted penicillin. Horrified by the sight of painfully dying children, Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins reluctantly agrees again to entrap Harrylime.  At a cafe Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins waits to meet Harrylime.ime while Calloway, Painebernardlee. and several other policemen stake out nearby in the shadows. Annaschmidt comes into the cafe to admonish Hollymartinsjosephcotten. his location disclosed to her by Baronkurtz as he was being arrested. While she talks to him, Harrylime.ime has snuck in the back of the cafe. Just as Harrylime.ime enters behind Annaschmidt, she yells at Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins for being a police informant. Harrylime.ime reacts, drawing a gun to shoot Hollymartinsjosephcotten. Annaschmidt is standing in the way and tells Harrylime.ime that he must escape or the police will get him. Harrylime.ime tells Annaschmidt to move so he can kill Hollymartinsjosephcotten. but he spots Sergeant Painebernardlee.ernardlee entering the front of the cafe and turns to run.  Harrylime.ime rushes to the nearest sewer entrance and goes down into the tunnels. Painebernardlee. Calloway, Hollymartinsjosephcotten. and international policemen pursue Harrylime.ime through the maze of sewer passages. Harrylime. for a time, evades the many men, but he is eventually cornered. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins happens upon the panicked Harrylime.ime and, hiding from the range of Harrylime.s gun, tells him that he must give up. Sergeant Painebernardlee. followed by Calloway, comes rushing to Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins to warn him to get back, but Harrylime.ime shoots Painebernardlee. and he falls. Harrylime.ime tries to run but is shot by Calloway.  Harrylime.ime manages to crawl out of sight while Calloway leans over the dying Painebernardlee. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins takes Painebernardlee.s gun and sets off after Harrylime. and Calloway tells him to shoot on sight. In a passageway, badly wounded, Harrylime.ime strains to climb up steps to escape through a sewer grate. He manages to make it to the top of the staircase, where he reaches his fingers up through the grate, feeling the air above. However, he is too weak to lift the manhole cover, and he drops his head into his arms. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins walks up and aims the gun at Harrylime. Harrylime.ime weakly lifts his head and nods slightly at Hollymartinsjosephcotten. a silent okay for Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins to mercykill him. A shot rings out in the sewers. Calloway sees the figure of Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins emerging from the passageway alone.  Soon after, Harrylime.ime again has another funeral in the same cemetery. Hollymartinsjosephcotten. Calloway, and Annaschmidt are the only attendees. After the service, Calloway begins to drive Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins to the airport. Seeing Annaschmidt walking behind them down the same treelined trail as the first time he saw her, Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins asks to get out to speak to her. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins waits for Annaschmidt as she walks down the long road toward him. When she nears him, though, she does not acknowledge his presence and walks by. Hollymartinsjosephcotten.artins doesn't say anything, but he puts his head down and lights a cigarette.