On the deck of a ship in San Pedro, California, a figure identified as Keysersze speaks with an injured man called Deankeatongabrielbyrne. The two talk briefly, then Keysersze appears to shoot Deankeatongabrielbyrne before setting the ship ablaze.  The next day, FBI Agent Jackbaergiancarloesposito and U.S. Customs special agent Davekujanchazzpalminteri arrive in San Pedro separately to investigate what happened on the boat. 27 people have been killed in the fire. There appear to be only two survivors a crippled man named Roger 'Verbal' Verbalkint Kevinspacey and a hospitalized Hungarian criminal and crewman. Baer interrogates the Hungarian, who claims that Keysersze, a Turkish criminal mastermind with a nearly mythical reputation, was in the harbor killing many men. The Hungarian begins to describe Keysersze while a translator interprets and a police sketch artist draws a rendering of Keysersze's face.  Meanwhile, Verbalkint tells the authorities everything he knows in exchange for immunity. After making his statement to the district attorney, Verbalkint is placed in a police station office where Davekujanchazzpalminteri requests to hear the story again, from the beginning  Verbal's tale starts six weeks earlier in New York City, when an armored truck containing spare gun parts is hijacked in Queens. The driver of the stolen truck was grabbed from behind and never saw the person or persons who acosted him, but the unknown hijacker spoke to him. Subsequently, the NYPD round up five different criminals Deankeatongabrielbyrne is a corrupt former police officer who has apparently given up his life of crime, and is arrested while eating dinner at a fancy restaurant Michaelmcmanusstephenbaldwin is a crack shot with a temper and a wild streak, arrested in the middle of the night Fredfensterbeniciodeltoro is McManus's hispanic partner who speaks in mangled English, and is nabbed on a street corner Toddhockneykevinpollak is a hijacker who forms an instant rivalry with McManus, and is picked up while working on a car in his garage and Verbal himself, who is a con artist that suffers from cerebral palsy. The five men are brought together for a lineup, and are told to say the phrase, Give me the keys, you fucking cocksucker. They all manage to butcher the phrase. Later, while sitting in a holding cell, McManus convinces the others to join forces to commit a robbery targeting New York's Finest Taxi service, a group of corrupt NYPD police officers who escort smugglers to their destinations around the city. Their attack on one smuggler goes off without a hitch, with farther reaching consequences as numerous other officers are indicted on corruption charges.  With their loot, the quintet travels to California to sell it to McManus's fence, Redfootpetergreene Petergreene. Redfootpetergreene talks them into another job robbing a purported jewel smuggler. Instead of jewels or money, as they were told he was carrying, the smuggler had heroin. An angry confrontation between the thieves and Redfootpetergreene reveals that the job came from a lawyer named Kobayashipetepostlethwaite. They later meet with Kobayashi, who claims to work for Keysersze and blackmails them into destroying the cargo of a ship coming to San Pedro harbor.  In the present, Verbalkint tells Davekujanchazzpalminteri the story of Keysersze as he apparently heard it. Verbal's flashback reveals Keysersze's family being harassed by a rival Hungarian gang in Turkey. Keysersze goes on a murderous vendetta against all those who were involved. Afterwards, he apparently disappears thereafter, he rarely conducts business without an alias and maintains anonymity between himself and anyone working for him. With time, Keysersze's story takes on mythic stature, with most people either doubting his existence or disbelieving it entirely.  Back in the present, Verbalkint continues to tell his version of what happened then. His flashback resumes to reveal Fenster's attempt to run away, but he is tracked and killed  by Kobayashi. The remaining four thieves kidnap Kobayashi, believing Keysersze to be a cover for his activities and intending to kill him if he does not leave them alone. Before McManus can execute him, Kobayashi reveals that lawyer Ediefinneransuzyamis, Deankeatongabrielbyrne.s girlfriend, is in his office. Kobayashi also says that he has the will, the information, and the means to injure or kill the remaining four criminals' relatives if they do not go through with the arrangement.  On the night of the cocaine deal, the sellersa group of Argentine mobstersare on the dock, as are the buyersa group of Hungarian mobsters. Deankeatongabrielbyrne tells Verbal to stay back, and to take the money to Ediefinneransuzyamis if the plan goes awry so she can pursue Kobayashi her way Verbal reluctantly agrees to do so. He watches the boat from a distance, in hiding, as Deankeatongabrielbyrne. McManus and Toddhockneykevinpollak attack the men at the pier in a huge gunfight.  During the battle, Toddhockneykevinpollak is killed as Deankeatongabrielbyrne and McManus discover separately that there is no cocaine on the boat. Meanwhile, Hungarians, yet untouched by the thieves, are being picked off by an unseen killer, and a closelyguarded Hispanic passenger is killed by an unseen assailant. McManus is killed with a knife to the back of his neck, and Deankeatongabrielbyrne. turning away to leave, is shot in the back. A figure in a dark coat appears, presumably Keysersze, and lights a cigarette with a gold lighter. He appears to speak briefly with Deankeatongabrielbyrne before apparently shooting him in medias res.  In the present, with Verbal's story finished, Davekujanchazzpalminteri reveals what he has deduced, with the aide of Baer The boat hijacking was not about cocaine, but rather to ensure that one man aboard the shipthe Hispanic passenger held captive, one of the few individuals alive who could positively identify Szeis killed. After Keysersze presumably killed the man, he eliminated everyone else on the ship and set it ablaze Davekujanchazzpalminteri reveals that Ediefinneransuzyamis has also been killed. Davekujanchazzpalminteri has concluded that Deankeatongabrielbyrne was Keysersze. Verbal admits that the whole affair, from the beginning, was Deankeatongabrielbyrne.s idea. His bail having been posted, Verbal departs with his immunity.  Verbal retrieves his personal effects from the property officer as Davekujanchazzpalminteri, relaxing in the office he used for the interrogation, notices that details and names from Verbal's story are words appearing on various objects around the room. 'Redfootpetergreene' is the name on a wanted poster, for example, and 'Kobayashi' is written on the bottom of a coffee cup that Verbal handled earlier. Quickly putting the pieces together, Davekujanchazzpalminteri realizes that Verbal made up practically the entire story as he talked. He runs outside just as a fax arrives with the police artist's impression of Keysersze's face which resembles Verbalkint.  As he leaves the police station, Verbal's distinctive limp gradually disappears and he shakes out his palsied hand. He steps into a waiting car driven by Mr. Kobayashi, departing just as Davekujanchazzpalminteri comes outside to see too late that Verbalkint is gone. Verbalkint is Keysersze, so how much of his narration was truthful is open to interpretation.