The movie opens with a TV advertisement for Strattonoakmont, Inc. It discusses the nature of Wall Street brokers, describing them as bulls or lions. A lion walks through one of the floors of the company.  We next see a large group of brokers playing a game where they throw little people onto a board with a dollar sign for a bullseye. Jordanbelfort.elfort  then introduces himself among those playing this game. He tells us that he is the son of two accountants living in Bayside, Queens. Ever since he started working on Wall Street, Jordanbelfort.elfort has enjoyed a life of endless drugs and countless hookers of his choosing. He is seen blowing cocaine into a hooker's butt, and then later flying a helicopter while hopped up on quaaludes. We also see him driving his Ferrari and getting a blowjob from a woman revealed to be his wife Naomilapaglia . According to Jordanbelfort. he does enough drugs to sedate the majority of New York's population. The one drug he loves the most, however, is the one that can make man conquer the world, and that is money. He snorts a line of coke with a 100 bill, crumples it up, and then tosses it in a wastebasket.  When he was 22 years old, Jordanbelfort.elfort began working on Wall Street while married to a woman named Teresapetrillo.etrillo . He starts working as a broker and he meets his smoothtalking, easygoing boss Markhanna , along with another abrasive and foulmouthed coboss, Peterdeblasio . Jordanbelfort.elfort is astonished at how everybody talks and works. He has a drink with Markhanna, who is doing a rhythmic chant while pounding his chest. Markhanna orders enough martinis for them to pass the fuck out. He asks Jordanbelfort.elfort how many times he jerks off Jordanbelfort.elfort says about three or four times a week. Markhanna says those are rookie numbers and that he does it at least twice a day. He starts babbling to Jordanbelfort.elfort about how nobody knows if the stocks will go up, down, sideways, or whatever, and that it's all a fugazi. Markhanna's primary reason for going into stocks was pretty much just for hookers and blow. He gets Jordanbelfort.elfort to join in the Money Chant.  Jordanbelfort.elfort starts his first day with his broker's license on what happens to be October 19, 1987  aka, Black Monday. The stocks around the world plummet, and Jordanbelfort.elfort loses his job. At home, Teresapetrillo.etrillo suggests they pawn her wedding ring as he looks through the jobs section in the paper. He comes across one place in Long Island Investor Center located in a small minishopping center.  Jordanbelfort.elfort shows up to Investor Center in a suit. The place is merely a small establishment that hardly looks professional. Jordanbelfort.elfort is greeted by Dwayne , the man who runs the place. He assigns Jordanbelfort.elfort to pitch a sale for a company called Aerotyne, a small company out of Dubuque, Iowa garage. Aerotyne is also a pink sheet  stock and he will receive 50 of the commission. Jordanbelfort.elfort calls a potential investor about Aerotyne. He sells it to him as a huge company , but the way he pitches it draws everybody's attention. Everybody in the office stops what they're doing to listen to Jordanbelfort. who makes a very slick but also very professional sales pitch. He succeeds in making the sale and his new coworkers are impressed.  After a few months, Jordanbelfort.elfort is making serious money. He is approached in a diner by a chubby bespectacled man with fluorescent white teeth named Braddonnie.zoff . He asks Jordanbelfort.elfort if the Jaguar outside is his car, to which Jordanbelfort.elfort says 'yes'. Braddonnie says he lives in the same apartment building as Jordanbelfort.elfort and mentions he works selling children's furniture. He asks Jordanbelfort.elfort how much money he makes, and Jordanbelfort.elfort says he made 72,000 the previous month. Not believing it, Braddonnie asks to see a pay stub for 72,000. Jordanbelfort.elfort pulls one out, and Braddonnie calls his boss to tell him he's quitting to go into stocks.  Jordanbelfort.elfort and Braddonnie have drinks at a bar. We learn that Braddonnie married his cousin because he didn't like the idea of anybody else trying to sleep with her. Outside, Braddonnie smokes some crack and offers some to Jordanbelfort. He takes one hit and gets pumped, telling Braddonnie they need to go running.  The two find a garage where they plan to set up a business. Jordanbelfort.elfort recruits some of his friends to join. They include Robbiefeinberg , Aldenkupferberg , Chesterming , Nickykoskoff , and Braddonnie.onnie . Braddonnie.onnie is especially well known for making drug sales in his old neighborhood. Jordanbelfort.elfort tells Braddonnie.onnie to sell him a pen that he pulls out of his pocket. Braddonnie.onnie tells him to write something on a napkin. Jordanbelfort.elfort says he doesn't have a pen, and Braddonnie.onnie sells it to him. Jordanbelfort.elfort also brings along several guys from Investor Center, including a guy called Tobywelch .  Jordanbelfort.elfort and Braddonnie set up what is basically a boiler room in the garage they find. The guys are all set up at desks, ready to make calls with a script that Jordanbelfort.elfort wrote for them. They start with blue chip stocks like Disney and ATampT. Jordanbelfort.elfort calls one investor to purchase stocks in Kodak. Jordanbelfort.elfort anticipates the deal by making crude sexual gestures to everyone just as the investor signs on. From there, Jordanbelfort.elfort creates Strattonoakmont and forms it into a much larger business with even more brokers working for him. He has groups of ambitious and hopeful brokers clamoring in his office showing off their resumes to his face. As one Strattonite makes a sale, the whole floor celebrates, with a marching band and a big group of hookers. They even have one female employee get her head shaved if Jordanbelfort.elfort pays her 10,000 for her to use for breast implants.  Over the next few years, news of Strattonoakmont's success gets around, from Forbes Magazine to the FBI, specifically Agent Patrickdenham . Forbes does a piece on Jordanbelfort. calling him a sleazy Robinhood and dubbing him the Wolf of Wall Street. Jordanbelfort.elfort is at first angry about it, but Teresapetrillo.etrillo tells him there's no such thing as bad publicity and more young and eager brokers flock to his office. They bring on Jordanbelfort.s father, whom everyone refers to as Madmax  due to his constantly irritated attitude. He oversees his son's accounts and berates him and his partners for spending 26,000 for a dinner, interrupting their chat about using the little people for their game .  Jordanbelfort.elfort throws a party at his Long Island beachfront house where he announces a plan to take the company into the FUCKING STRATOSPHERE He is about to explain to us the effects of quaaludes, but Braddonnie suddenly rises and slowly goes over to Jordanbelfort.s table in slow motion to mumble Stevemadden. Stevemadden, as Jordanbelfort.elfort notes, was the big name in women's shoes. Jordanbelfort.elfort then sees Naomilapaglia for the first time. He runs down to introduce himself, inviting her to join him on his jet ski. Braddonnie.s wife Hildy  sees this and tries to get Jordanbelfort.elfort away from Naomilapaglia by saying Teresapetrillo.etrillo needs his help. Braddonnie then goes downstairs and starts masturbating to Naomilapaglia in front of the whole party.  Jordanbelfort.elfort takes Naomilapaglia out to dinner one night. When he takes her home, she invites him to her apartment for some tea. Jordanbelfort.elfort is extremely tempted by her, right before she steps out of her room fully nude. The two have sex for 11 seconds before Jordanbelfort.elfort tries to get it going again. He continues his affair with Naomilapaglia for a while before Teresapetrillo.etrillo catches Jordanbelfort.elfort doing coke off her breasts in the back of a limo. She pulls Jordanbelfort.elfort out and starts smacking him. She tearfully asks him if he loves Naomilapaglia, but he doesn't reply. Narrating again in voiceover, Jordanbelfort.elfort says he felt bad about hurting Teresapetrillo. and then filed for divorce three days later.  Naomilapaglia moves into Jordanbelfort.s apartment. She hires a decorator to redo the place to Jordanbelfort.s liking, and she also hires a gay butler named Nicholas . Jordanbelfort.elfort likes him until the night that Naomilapaglia comes home to find that Nicholas is holding a gay orgy in the apartment. She goes crying to Jordanbelfort.elfort and tells him that 20,000 in cash is missing from their room as well as 30,000 worth of jewelry and other appliances. Jordanbelfort. Braddonnie. Chester, and Rugrat interrogate Nicholas about what he knows about the missing money. Nicholas refuses to answer questions  and quickly changes the subject by openly telling them that he thinks them questioning him is just gay prejudice. Chester punches him hard in the nose, and he and Braddonnie hold Nicholas by his legs over the balcony to try to make him confess. Jordanbelfort.elfort calls the cops, who arrest Nicholas for stealing, and kick his ass instead.  Jordanbelfort.elfort manages to recover the stolen cash through money laundering. Since he recognizes that these practices are illegal, he hires an attorney, Mannyriskin , to keep them clear. All Jordanbelfort.elfort cares is that he's making more money than he and anybody else can know what to do with.  Jordanbelfort.elfort proposes to Naomilapaglia with a yellow diamond ring. She accepts. He holds a bachelor party in Las Vegas, where even the plane ride consists of a lot of hookers, alcohol and a lot of cocaine. The wedding is also a pretty big event. Naomilapaglia introduces Jordanbelfort.elfort to her English Auntemma , who is aware of Jordanbelfort.s cocaine use. Jordanbelfort.elfort and Naomilapaglia move out of their New York penthouse and buy a large mansion on Long Island. He even buys Naomilapaglia a yacht as a wedding gift .  18 months later, Jordanbelfort.elfort and Naomilapaglia have a daughter, Skyler. By this time, the couple is constantly bickering over Jordanbelfort.s antics. He slept through the night calling the name Venice. We see she is a hooker who pulled a lit candle out of Jordanbelfort.s ass during sex and poured the hot wax on his back as he kept screaming Wolfie . Jordanbelfort.elfort says this fighting is part of their routine, which ends with them getting intimate. When they put the baby to sleep, Naomilapaglia says she is wearing short skirts from now on and won't be wearing panties deliberately to tease Jordanbelfort. Jordanbelfort.elfort however, has his own trick to pull he tells Naomilapaglia that she's been videotaped by Jordanbelfort.s security guards, both of whom are named Rocco.  At work, it is the day of an IPO meeting with Stevemadden, a ladies shoe designer seeking to go public with his company. Jordanbelfort.elfort catches a geeky broker cleaning his goldfish tank. He sends Braddonnie to call the guy out and humiliate him in front of everybody by swallowing the man's goldfish whole and then sending him out while everybody else jeers him on. Stevemadden  goes up to present his latest shoes, the Marylous . The brokers start throwing junk at him, which Jordanbelfort.elfort stops. He wants Stevemadden to join them in business, which he agrees to. Jordanbelfort.elfort then gets up to the stage to give a speech to the whole floor about the wonders of being rich. The stock is launched in the trading room and becomes a success, netting Strattonoakmont 22 million in just three hours.  The FBI sends the company a subpoena to request Jordanbelfort.s wedding video tape. Jordanbelfort.elfort meets his private investigator, Bodietl  where Bodietl tells him that Denhamdietl has pictures of Jordanbelfort.s inner circle. Jordanbelfort.elfort asks Bodietl if it's possible to buy off Denhamdietl emphatically says 'no'.  A few days later, Jordanbelfort.elfort invites Denhamdietl and his partner Agent Hughes  onto the Naomilapaglia moored at a Long Island harbor. He shows them the list of everybody in attendance to the wedding. When Jordanbelfort.elfort tells Denhamdietl of an employee of his that he hired after needing money for his mother's triple bypass surgery, Denhamdietl interprets this as some sort of bribe. Jordanbelfort.elfort laughs it off and sends the agents off his yacht. He mockingly throws money at them as they walk away.  Jordanbelfort.elfort decides to keep his money safe from the tax men as well as thieves by storing it in offshore accounts. He, Braddonnie. and Rugrat go to Switzerland to get the job done. The trip there is chaotic for Jordanbelfort.elfort since he takes a bunch of quaaludes prior to the flight. He then behaves very lewdly toward the stewardess and he insults the pilot. He wakes up strapped to his chair. Braddonnie tells Jordanbelfort.elfort that he tried to start a riotous party on the airplane, dryhumping the female flight attendants and insulting the plane's captain, who personally restrained Jordanbelfort.elfort in his seat. Due to Rugrat's intervention, with assistance from his Swiss friend, Jordanbelfort.elfort isn't charged upon his arrival.  The trio meets with a group of French Swiss bankers led by Jeanjacquessorel , Rugrat's friend in college. Jeanjacquessorel persuades them to get someone outside the U.S. to store money in their account. Jordanbelfort.elfort travels to London, England to convince Naomilapaglia's Auntemma to take some money. This also leads to Jordanbelfort.elfort unsuccessfully trying to hit on her. They also use Braddonnie.s Slovak wife Chantalle  to smuggle money in with her family. Braddonnie and Braddonnie.onnie get into an argument that ends with Braddonnie.onnie punching Braddonnie out.  Some time later, Braddonnie drives out to a seedy Long Island strip mall to make an exchange with Braddonnie. Braddonnie.onnie had specifically asked Jordanbelfort.elfort to make sure Braddonnie didn't arrive at the meeting drugged out, but Braddonnie appears to be anyway. After a few moments, Braddonnie reveals that he isn't actually stoned for the meeting and begins to provoke Braddonnie.onnie had taken very personally the fact that Braddonnie.onnie had hit him. They get into another argument with the cops watching nearby. Braddonnie drops his briefcase of money and flees, leaving Braddonnie.onnie to get arrested.  Braddonnie brings to Jordanbelfort.elfort a strong brand of quaaludes called Lemmon 714, a very rare version of the drug. The two take a pill each and watch Family Matters on the TV, but feel no effects after 35 minutes. They take more and still feel nothing. They find out that they expired in 1981. Naomilapaglia  goes downstairs to find the two working out. She tells Jordanbelfort.elfort that Bodietl is on the line. Bodietl tells Jordanbelfort.elfort to go call him from a payphone. Jordanbelfort.elfort drives to a country club to use the payphone there. Bodietl tells him about Braddonnie.onnie getting arrested, and that Denhamdietl has Jordanbelfort.s home and work phones tapped. Just then, Jordanbelfort.elfort starts to finally feel the effects of the Lemmons taking effect. He starts slurring his words and then collapses to the floor, unable to stand or walk. He crawls outside, rolls down the steps, and manages to open the door of his Lamborghini. Naomilapaglia calls him to say that Braddonnie is calling Jeanjacquessorel. Jordanbelfort.elfort makes an attempt to drive his car home despite being too high. He slowly manages to get home safely and crawls his way out of his car and to the kitchen to pull Braddonnie  off the phone. Braddonnie runs to stuff cold cuts in his mouth, but he starts choking and falls on top of the glass table. Naomilapaglia runs in to find Braddonnie turning blue and choking. Jordanbelfort.elfort grabs a little vial of coke from a drawer and pours the whole thing into his nose. This is juxtaposed with a Popeye cartoon as Olive Oyl feeds the sailor man some spinach, with the tune accompanying Jordanbelfort.elfort and the coke. He pulls the food out of Braddonnie.s mouth and begins to apply a crude form of the Heimlich Maneuver. Jordanbelfort.elfort pauses for a few seconds, thinking he'll let Braddonnie die, until Naomilapaglia reminds him that Braddonnie has a family. Jordanbelfort.elfort finally gets Braddonnie to cough up the food he was choking on.  Jordanbelfort.elfort wakes up the next morning to find the police in his house. They arrest him when they show him his Lamborghini, with notable damage, despite Jordanbelfort.elfort thinking he got the car home in one piece. A flashback shows us that Jordanbelfort.elfort didn't make it home without damaging his car, hitting several other cars, a few golf carts and a mailbox. He is released after it's determined they have no proof Jordanbelfort.elfort was ever behind the wheel of the car. Manny and Max tell Jordanbelfort.elfort he got lucky.  Another few months later, Jordanbelfort.elfort holds a big meeting on his floor to announce that he is stepping down from the company to pass it onto Braddonnie. Pinhead, and Rugrat. He calls out one woman for starting at Stratton with barely two nickels to rub together, and now living rich. He tells the brokers he loves all of them, moving them to tears. Jordanbelfort.elfort then changes his mind and decides to stay, leading to cheers. He gets everybody to join him in the Money Chant. His father is not pleased, believing Jordanbelfort.elfort would be better off in taking the deal the FBI was offering.  Jordanbelfort.elfort holds a huge celebration on his yacht, right after Braddonnie.onnie is released from jail. Braddonnie.onnie subsequently quits doing business in stocks, and Jordanbelfort.elfort tells us he died of a heart attack two years later.  In June 1996, Jordanbelfort.elfort and Braddonnie take their wives to Portofino, Italy to continue the celebration. Rugrat calls then while they're drinking Bloody Marys and snorting cocaine to tell them that Stevemadden is unloading shares after hearing about Jordanbelfort.s recent trouble with the law. To make matters worse, Naomilapaglia comes crying to tell Jordanbelfort.elfort that Auntemma died of a heart attack. Jordanbelfort.elfort is distraught, but more due to the fact that this leaves the 20 million in her account inaccessible. Jordanbelfort.elfort calls Jeanjacquessorel. who tells him that Auntemma named Jordanbelfort.elfort the successor to the money. He just needs to get to Switzerland immediately. Jordanbelfort.elfort runs to tell the captain to take them to Switzerland, despite Naomilapaglia's insistence that they go to England for the funeral. The captain warns that there may be choppy waters ahead, but Jordanbelfort.elfort doesn't care. Indeed, they do sail right into dangerous waters. Jordanbelfort.elfort orders Braddonnie to run and get more quaaludes, even as Braddonnie objects  Jordanbelfort.elfort doesn't want to die sober. He runs downstairs anyway and brings the drugs up, just as a huge wave breaks through boat and turns it over. The group is rescued by a Italian Navy helicopter called in by Jordanbelfort. They're taken on another boat, and Jordanbelfort.elfort sees the jet crash into the ocean. He tells us this was due to a seagull flying into the engine. He believes this to be a sign from God.  Two years later, Jordanbelfort.elfort is sobered up. He is seen in an infomercial advertising his moneymaking seminar, Straight Line. During a taping of the infomercial, Denhamdietl and other agents arrest Jordanbelfort. Jeanjacquessorel had been arrested in Switzerland for crimes unrelated to Jordanbelfort. and he ended up ratting him out while having dinner with Rugrat . Jeanjacquessorel had also been having an affair with Braddonnie.s wife whenever she smuggle cash to him in Switzerland. All the members of Stratton refuse to give anybody up to save themselves.  Braddonnie goes over to Jordanbelfort.s place as he is under house arrest, he wears a locator on his right ankle. He says he's got Jordanbelfort.s back in the scheme of things. He also asks Jordanbelfort.elfort how sober life is. Jordanbelfort.elfort thinks it sucks. Naomilapaglia is also furious with Jordanbelfort. refusing to speak to him.  Jordanbelfort.elfort and his lawyer meet with Denhamdietl and two other Department of Justice lawyers. They try to make a deal in which Jordanbelfort.elfort wears a wire to incriminate the other coconspirators. They call the case a Grenada in reference to the US invasion of Grenada in the Caribbean, where the US government very easily suppressed an invasion of that island nation by Cuba. To them, the case will be easy for the Dept of Justice to win because of the overwhelming amount of evidence they've collected.  A few nights later, Jordanbelfort.elfort pesters Naomilapaglia for sex, and she eventually gives in and asks him to make love as if it were the last time. Once the two are finished, she tells him it really was the last time she intends to file for divorce, and tells Jordanbelfort.elfort that unless he agrees to every condition that she demands , she'll take out a restraining order that will bar Jordanbelfort.elfort from ever contacting her or the kids again. Jordanbelfort.elfort becomes enraged and insults her she slaps him and he hits her back harder. He storms into a small sitting room and cuts open one of the sofa cushions, removing a bag of cocaine. He snorts a goodsized amount and runs into Skyler's room taking from her bed. Over Naomilapaglia's panicked protests, he runs downstairs to leave with Skyler. Naomilapaglia and the Belforts' maid try to stop Jordanbelfort.elfort as he drives the car out of the garage, but he ends up crashing into a wall just a few yards away. Skyler is unharmed as she was wearing her seat belt, but Jordanbelfort.elfort suffers a head injury. Naomilapaglia takes Skyler out of the car, as a dazed Jordanbelfort.elfort gradually realizes he will probably never see his two daughters again after this latest incident.  Jordanbelfort.elfort is set up with the wire to bring in his partners. They all cheer for him upon his return. He goes to start with Braddonnie. Jordanbelfort.elfort slides him a note that says Don't incriminate yourself. I'm wearing a wire. When he asks Braddonnie about their financial practices, Braddonnie pretends not to remember anything.  The FBI arrive at Jordanbelfort.s house to arrest him when they discover the note he slipped to Braddonnie . While Braddonnie rapidly deletes any incriminating files on his office computer the rest of the coconspirators are arrested in the office. In court, Jordanbelfort.elfort is sentenced to 36 months in prison. His mother cries as her son is taken away while Max looks at him disappointed. When he arrives at prison, Jordanbelfort.elfort admits that he was terrified when he got there. For a fleeting moment, he says, he forgot that he was rich. He had become so accustomed to a life where everything was for sale.  The final scene takes place at a Straight Line seminar in Auckland, New Zealand . Jordanbelfort.elfort comes out to the crowd and stands before one man. He pulls out a pen and tells him to sell it to him. The man awkwardly starts his pitch before Jordanbelfort.elfort takes the pen away. He hands it to another, who is equally awkward. Jordanbelfort.elfort continues to do the same with more guests, as all the hopeful future millionaires watch him.