While passing through the seedy border town of Los Robles, newlyweds Mike and Susanvargas.argas  witness a car bomb explosion in which Rudylinnekar, a local construction magnate, and his female companion are killed.  Suspecting that the bomb was planted on the Mexican side of the border and may be the work of the Joegrandi narcotics ring, Susanvargas, the Mexican head of the PanAmerican Narcotics Commission, offers his assistance to the Los Robles officials investigating the case. The lead detective, the obese and lumbering Capt. Hankquinlan , rudely rebuffs Susanvargas' offer. However, Hankquinlan.s partner, the loyal Sgt. Petemenzies , and Adair, a district attorney , apologize for Hankquinlan.s behavior and invite Susanvargas to observe their investigation because of his status as a highly placed Mexican government official.  In the meantime, a group of young Mexican men working for Uncle Joegrandi , a smalltime crime boss with a bad toupee, bring Susanvargas. an American, to Joegrandi.s headquarters in a sleazy hotel. Joegrandi warns Susanvargas.argas of dire consequences if her husband continues his prosecution of Joegrandi.s brother, an imprisoned drug dealer awaiting trial in Mexico, but Susanvargas.argas is unimpressed.  While investigating the case on the Mexican side of the border, Hankquinlan visits the tawdry brothel run by Tanya, a former lover , and the place fills him with nostalgic yearnings. Upon learning of Susanvargas.s encounter with Joegrandi. Susanvargas decides that she will be safer stashed in a motel on the American side of the border while he continues working on the Rudylinnekar case. However, unknown to Susanvargas, the motel is owned by Joegrandi. staffed by a very nervous night clerk , in the middle of the desert.  Hankquinlan soon tracks down a suspect, a Mexican shoe clerk who was having an affair with Rudylinnekar's daughter, Marcia , and later married her in a secret ceremony. Sanchez  claims he is innocent and appeals to Susanvargas for help. After a prolonged search, Hankquinlan declares that Menzies has found damning evidence of Sanchez's guilt concealed in a shoe box. Susanvargas, who had earlier seen that the box was empty, accuses Hankquinlan of planting dynamite in the box to frame Sanchez.  Joegrandi approaches Hankquinlan to suggest that they work together to ruin Susanvargas and after Hankquinlan has downed several drinks at Joegrandi.s prodding, they plot to destroy Susanvargas professionally and personally by framing Susanvargas. Joegrandi.s gang of young hoodlums, led by a sadistic woman , take over the motel and accost the terrified Susanvargas. who is shot up with drugs and then transported to a room in Joegrandi.s hotel.  When Susanvargas meets with Police Chief Gould and District Attorney Adair to discuss his suspicions about Hankquinlan. the faithful Menzies doggedly tracks down his partner to inform him of the meeting. Hankquinlan storms in on the meeting and, furious that Gould is not defending him, makes a show of throwing down his badge. Uncomfortable with the fact that Susanvargas is an outsider making accusations against a star detective, Gould and Adair placate Hankquinlan by telling Susanvargas to stay out of police business. Alschwartz, a young assistant D.A., stands by Susanvargas and secretly gains him access to Hankquinlan.s case files, which strongly suggest that Hankquinlan. tortured by the fact that he was unable to find enough evidence to convict the suspect who strangled his wife, has been framing suspects for years. Unable to accept that his partner and best friend is crooked, Menzies attempts to defend Hankquinlan.  Unable to reach Susanvargas.argas by phone, Susanvargas finally makes it to the motel to find the night clerk sitting in the dark and seemingly speechless with fear. To Susanvargas' horror, all that remains in Susanvargas.s room are the stench of marijuana smoke and the debris of a wild party.  Meanwhile, Hankquinlan arrives at Joegrandi.s hotel and enters the room where Susanvargas.argas lies unconscious, the smell of marijuana clinging to the clothing strewn about the floor. After forcing Joegrandi at gunpoint to telephone Menzies to report that he has found Susanvargas' wife surrounded by evidence of a drug party, Hankquinlan. who wants to ensure that he will not be a victim of blackmail, strangles Joegrandi with one of Susanvargas.s stockings.  Soon after, Susanvargas, who has launched a desperate search for his wife, learns that Susanvargas.argas has been jailed on suspicion of drug use, prostitution and the murder of Joegrandi. Knowing that Hankquinlan is behind the frameup and feeling helpless to stop him, Susanvargas explodes with rage, but Menzies takes him aside and reveals that he found Hankquinlan.s cane at the murder scene. Although he is devastated by the fall of his idol, Menzies agrees to help Susanvargas amass more incontrovertible evidence of Hankquinlan.s criminal activities and consents to being wired in the hopes that Hankquinlan will confess to his trusted partner.  Hankquinlan. still on a binge, has holed up at Tanya's place where, in a drunken haze, he asks her to read his fortune. Tanya, however, sadly declares that his future is all used up and advises him to go home. As he reels out the door, Hankquinlan is confronted by Menzies, who begins asking questions about the Joegrandi murder while, nearby, Susanvargas records the conversation. As they walk toward a bridge spanning a murky canal, Menzies accuses Hankquinlan of betraying his loyalty by setting him up as the stooge who always found the planted evidence. The argument is interrupted when Hankquinlan hears the sound of their voices on Susanvargas' tape recorder and finally realizes that Menzies is wired. When Menzies tries to stop Hankquinlan from harming Susanvargas, who is clinging to the side of the bridge, Hankquinlan shoots him and then, in shock at what he has done, stumbles down to the canal to wash the blood from his hands.  Susanvargas confronts Hankquinlan with the evidence he now has on tape, and Hankquinlan prepares to kill him so that he can pin the Menzies murder on him. However, Menzies, on the brink of death, manages to crawl to the edge of the bridge and shoot Hankquinlan. Alschwartz arrives with Susanvargas. who has been released from jail, and Susanvargas departs to take her home to Mexico City, knowing that he is leaving behind enough evidence to prove that Hankquinlan framed Susanvargas. Sanchez and many others. Ironically, however, Sanchez has ended up confessing to the murder of Rudylinnekar.  Tanya arrives at the edge of the canal and gazing with Alschwartz at Hankquinlan.s large frame floating in the black water, she sadly remarks that Hankquinlan was some kind of a man.