Days before the Andydavisjohnmorris family plans to move to a new house, cowboy doll Woodytomhanks coordinates a reconnaissance mission to find out what presents his owner Andydavisjohnmorris.avisjohnmorris is getting at his birthday party. Unfortunately for Woody, Andydavisjohnmorris.avisjohnmorris receives a new spaceman toy, Buzzlightyeartimallen, who impresses the other toys and Andydavisjohnmorris. Andydavisjohnmorris.avisjohnmorris starts to like Buzz more than Woody. Buzz believes that he's an actual space ranger, not a toy, and thinks that Woody is interfering with his mission to return to his home planet.  Woody, overcome with jealously, decides to replace Buzz at a family outing. He plans to trap Buzz in a gap behind Andydavisjohnmorris.s desk and rescue him later, but the plan backfires and Buzz falls out the window into the bushes below. The other toys accuse Woody of murdering Buzz out of jealousy, but as they are about to punish him, Andydavisjohnmorris.avisjohnmorris returns and takes Woody  out to Pizza Planet, a space themed restaurant. However, Buzz manages to sneak aboard the car, intent on getting revenge on Woody.  While Andydavisjohnmorris.s mother Lauriemetcalf refuels the car, Woody wonders how he will get out of his punishment from the other toys. Suddenly Buzz appears, very bitter over what Woody did to him. The two fight and roll out of the car, which drives off and leaves them stranded. Luckily, Woody sees another vehicle heading for Pizza Planet and knows that he can meet Andydavisjohnmorris.avisjohnmorris there. He tricks Buzz into coming with him .  When they arrive at Pizza Planet, Buzz climbs into a claw machine shaped like a spaceship, thinking it's the ship home Woody promised him. The machine is filled with threeeyed green aliens Debiderryberry,  Jeffpidgeon who believe the claw is a god. When Woody climbs in to rescue him, both Woody and Buzz are captured by Andydavisjohnmorris.s rather homicidal  neighbor, Siderikvondetten.  Siderikvondetten takes them back to his house and the two desperately try to escape his room before moving day. They encounter nightmarish mutant toys that Siderikvondetten has butchered and reconstructed, a la Frankenstein. Buzz sees a TV ad for himself and, though he now knows he is a toy, tries to prove himself wrong by jumping off the banister and trying to fly out the window. Of course he fails and crashes in the hall below, where he is rescued by Siderikvondetten's little sister, Hannahsarahfreeman.  Woody can't get a depressed Buzz to join in his escape plan, even when the mutant toys  who are actually not evil as the pair first thought  reattach Buzz's arm, which broke when he fell downstairs. Siderikvondetten plans to destroy Buzz by tying him to a rocket, but is delayed by a rainstorm. He decides to do it the next morning. That night, Woody convinces Buzz that even if he's not a space ranger, life's still worth living, though he himself despairs that he'll never by Andydavisjohnmorris.s favorite toy again.  Buzz regains his spirit, but before they can escape, Siderikvondetten wakes up and takes Buzz  out into the back yard. Woody and the mutant toys rescue him and teach Siderikvondetten a lesson that you should always treat your toys nicely, sending him screaming indoors. But it's too late, and after all their efforts, Andydavisjohnmorris.s car drives away to the new house without Buzz and Woody. They climb onto the moving truck but are attacked by Siderikvondetten's dog Scud. Buzz attacks the dog, sacrificing himself to save Woody. Woody attempts to save Buzz with Andydavisjohnmorris.s remotecontrol car. The other toys think Woody is trying to kill off another toy  and kick him off the back of the moving truck. However, when they see Woody riding back in the RC car with Buzz, they realize their mistake and try to help them both back on the truck. But the RC car's batteries run out, and they are left stranded  until Woody realizes he can rescue them by igniting Buzz's rocket. He even manages to save RC by tossing him into the back of the moving van as they soar upwards. Buzz frees himself of the rocket before it explodes, and both of them land safely next to Andydavisjohnmorris.avisjohnmorris in the car.  On Christmas Eve at the new house, the two toys, now friends, prepare another reconnaissance mission to find out what new toys Andydavisjohnmorris.avisjohnmorris is getting. After Woody jokingly asks what toy could be worse than Buzz, they hear a bark downstairs, and Andydavisjohnmorris.s joyous cry of Oh wow, a puppy Woody and Buzz exchange an uneasy look as the film ends.