Set in Edinburgh, the film begins with Markrenton's Ewanmcgregor narration as he and his friend, Spudewenbremner sprint down Princes Street, pursued by security guards. Renton states that unlike people who 'choose life' , he decided live life as a heroin addict. The rest of Renton's close circle of football enthusiast friends are introduced conartist Begbieampsickboy Jonnyleemiller, cleancut athlete Tommykevinmckidd and sociopath, Frankbegbierobertcarlyle. Begbieampsickboy, Spudewenbremner and Renton are all heroin addicts who spend their days shooting up in their drug dealer, Swanney's Petermullan flat. Swanney is often referred to as The Mother Superior by the guys.  One day, Renton decides to give up heroin. Realizing he needs one last high to get him through the night, he buys opium rectal suppositories from dealer, Mikeyforresterirvinewelsh. After this final hit , Renton locks him into a cheap hotel room to endure the withdrawal. He later goes to a nightclub with the gang, noticing that his sex drive has returned with a vengeance. He eventually leaves with a young woman named Dianekellymacdonald. After having sex together, Dianekellymacdonald refuses to sleep in the same room as Renton and forces him to sleep in the hallway on a sofa. In the morning, Renton realizes that Dianekellymacdonald is in fact a 15 year old schoolgirl and the flatmates sitting around the breakfast table are in fact, her parents. Horrified, Renton tries to shake off the incident but remains friends with Dianekellymacdonald, who threatens to tell the police that Renton had sex with her despite being underage.  Tommykevinmckidd is dumped by his girlfriend Lizzypaulinelynch after a string of events unintentionally initially started by Renton. Renton had previously borrowed a sex tape of Tommyamplizzy, without their consent, hiding it in the box of a football tape. Lizzypaulinelynch angrily believes that Tommykevinmckidd had returned the tape to the video store. Begbieampsickboy, Spudewenbremner and Renton decide to use heroin again and a brokenhearted Tommykevinmckidd asks to try it to see why they like it so much, despite Renton's reluctance.  One day during a heroininduced stupor, the gang are violently interrupted by Allison  who has discovered that her infant child, Dawn has died from neglect. All are shellshocked, especially Begbieampsickboy who is implied to be the baby's father.  Renton and Spudewenbremner are later caught stealing from a book shop and are pursued by security guards, as seen in the beginning of the film. Due to prior convictions, Spudewenbremner is sent to prison whereas Renton is put on a Drug Intervention Programme and given methadone. Despite support from friends and family, Renton becomes increasingly bored and depressed and escapes to Swanney's flat where he takes a particularly strong hit and nearly dies. Renton's parents lock him in his room so he can beat his addiction cold turkey. As Renton lies in bed going through severe withdrawal symptoms, he hallucinates that Dianekellymacdonald is singing to him, friends are giving him advice and Allison's dead baby is crawling on the ceiling. The hallucination sequence is intercut with weird, imagined scenes from a TV game show, with Dalewinton asking Renton's parents questions about HIV. Renton is finally awoken from his nightmares and is told by his parents that he needs to get tested. Despite years of sharing syringes with other drug addicts, Renton's test comes back negative.  Clean of heroin, Renton decides to visit Tommykevinmckidd who, by now, is lost in his heroin addiction and has contracted HIV. He's living in a filthy flat. On Dianekellymacdonald's advice, Renton moves to London and gets a job as a property letting agent. He begins enjoying his new life of sobriety but it's shortlived after Begbieampsickboy's involved in an armed robbery. He turns up at Renton's flat, asking for a place to hide out. Begbieampsickboy, who now sees himself as a wellconnected pimp and drug pusher, also shows up on Renton's doorstep. Renton's 'friends' make his life miserable, stealing from him and trashing his flat. Seeking to rid himself of them, Renton gives them a flat he's responsible for which they use as a base to commit theft, however, Renton doesn't rent it to them and they live there as squatters. The three soon learn of Tommykevinmckidd's death due to toxoplasmosis and travel back to Edinburgh for his funeral.  Back home, they meet Spudewenbremner who's been released from prison. Begbieampsickboy suggests a dangerous but profitable heroin transaction. Begbieampsickboy needs Renton's help to supply half of the initial 4,000 supply. After the purchase, Renton checks the purity by injection. The four then sell the drugs to the dealer for 16,000. They all go to a pub to celebrate, all them friendlier and happier than they usually are, and discuss their plans to spend the money. Renton suggests to Spudewenbremner that they steal the money and run as Begbieampsickboy amp Begbieampsickboy get drinks in. Spudewenbremner is too scared of Begbieampsickboy to consider it. Renton believes that neither Begbieampsickboy nor Begbieampsickboy deserve the money. As Begbieampsickboy heads back to the table with another round of pints he bumps into another patron and spills much of the beer he bought. When the man apologizes, Begbieampsickboy turns violent and smashes the man's face with one of the glasses. As he moves in to cut the man with a knife, he slashes Spudewenbremner's hand. The incident is enough for Renton to decide to later steal the money since he feels he can't relate to either Begbieampsickboy or Begbieampsickboy any longer.  Early in the morning, Renton wakes up before anyone else and takes the money from Begbieampsickboy, leaving quietly. Spudewenbremner sees him leave but says nothing Renton gives him an affirmative nod. After Begbieampsickboy discovers the money has gone, he trashes the hotel room in a violent rage that alerts the police, presumably leading to his arrest.  Renton travels to London and vows to live the traditional, stable life he talked about in the beginning of the film. In voiceover, he talks about how Begbieampsickboy would have stolen the money from everyone if he'd thought to do it first. He does feel some remorse for leaving Spudewenbremner behind and leaves him 2,000 in the locker where he'd been hiding his passport. In the final scene, Spudewenbremner retrieves the money Renton left for him.