The time is the indeterminate future. A virus, deliberately released in 1996 in multiple locations around the world, has killed off five billion people. Survivors have established an elaborate underground civilization because the earth's surface is considered uninhabitable by humans. From time to time prisoners volunteer to don protective gear and gather specimens of insects from the surface to test for the presence of the virus.  One such prisoner is Jamescole, who after retrieving samples is given the chance to go back in time to 1996 and find information about the group believed responsible, known as The Army of 12 Monkeys. Throughout the ensuing episodes, Jamescole finds himself remembering, as if in dreams, various things that he witnessed as a child, including the killing of a man in an airport. This persists as a theme throughout the film.  Miscalculation sends Jamescole to 1990, and he finds himself incarcerated in an insane asylum. His psychiatrist, Kathrynrailly, thinks she has met him before, but his ravings are incoherent , and eventually he is locked up with other lunatics. There he meets Jeffreygoines, who is definitely off the wall, but who tries to help him escape. Eventually, Jamescole is snatched back to his present time, interrogated, and given a second chance to complete his mission. A second miscalculation sends him to the battlefields of World War I, where he is wounded in the leg.  However much the result of miscalculation these visits are, they prove instrumental. When the scientists of Jamescole.s present finally succeed in sending him to 1996, Jamescole kidnaps Dr. Kathrynrailly and tries to convince her that he is from the future. He finds that Jeffreygoines, whose father is a famous virologist, is now out of the asylum, working for his father, and has formed The Army of 12 Monkeys. Jamescole is now racing against time, and after a few mishaps, finally decides that he wants to stay in 1996 with Dr. Kathrynrailly. surrendering to the inevitable destruction of human life.  By this time, Dr. Kathrynrailly has become convinced that somehow, Jamescole knows somethinghis predictions of the outcome of minor events is too uncanny. The discovery of a World War I bullet in Jamescole.s leg forces her to check a photograph taken on the battlefield which, impossibly, shows Jamescole in the trenches. She becomes convinced that The Army of 12 Monkeys indeed poses a threat, and she persuades Jamescole to take up his cause again.  An essential element in the communication between Jamescole.s past and present is a telephone number where he can leave a message for the scientists of his own present. When Jeffreygoines and his Army release all the animals in the zoo to roam the streets of New York, and then posts flyers declaring We did it Jamescole realizes that the Army is not the threat, and he leaves a phone message to that effect. Shortly after, Jose, a fellow volunteer from the present, approaches Jamescole with orders for him to complete his mission and hands him a revolver. Jamescole initially refuses, but then notices a guard from the present glaring at him. Jose makes it clear Dr Kathrynrailly will be killed if Jamescole does not comply.  Meanwhile, the police are after Jamescole for kidnapping Dr. Kathrynrailly. In an airport, while attempting with Jamescole to elude capture, Dr. Kathrynrailly recognizes Dr Peters, a man who worked with Jeffreygoines's father in the virology lab and an apocalypse nut. She rushes to inform Jamescole of this and frantically identifies him, along with his travel plans, with Jose overhearing this. The man goes through airport screening and manages to persuade security that his biological samplesone for each of the many cities on his itineraryare harmless. Dr. Kathrynrailly alerts Jamescole. and they attempt to stop the man. To Dr. Kathrynrailly.s horror, Jamescole is shot by the police while chasing the real perpetrator, who escapes to board his plane. Jamescole.s death is witnessed by a boy named Jamescole, who is with his parents the young Jamescole.  On the plane, the escaped perp takes his seat and gets into conversation with his fellow passenger. We recognize her as the woman lead scientist from Jamescole.s present. Jamescole had stated once the virus was located, a scientist would be sent back to study it in its original unmutated form, so that a cure could be developed in the present. She identifies herself as Jones and cryptically says she's in insurance.