Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood Clint Eastwood is a widower with two young children. He was once a very vicious gunfighter, but after marrying, gave up gunfighting, drinking, and most other vices. His wife died of smallpox in 1878, but he continues to try to eke out a living with his children on their hog farm, and to try to be the kind of man he believes his late wife would want him to be. It is now 1880.  The town of Big Whiskey, Wyoming is ruled rather arbitrarily by a sheriff named Littlebilldaggettgenehackman.aggettgenehackman. Two cowboys, Daveyrobcampbell and Mikedavidmucci.avidmucci are spending their leave at a brothel owned by Skinnyduboisanthonyjames.uboisanthonyjames. One of the women, Delilah, makes an offhanded comment that Mikedavidmucci.avidmucci perceives as an insult, so he attacks her with a knife, scarring her face. Skinnyduboisanthonyjames.uboisanthonyjames and the de facto madam, Strawberryalicefrancesfisher hold them until Littlebilldaggettgenehackman.aggettgenehackman can arrive. The women want Daveyrobcampbell and Mikedavidmucci.avidmucci to hang, but Littlebilldaggettgenehackman.aggettgenehackman decides that since they did not murder Delilah, they should be horsewhipped instead. However, Skinnyduboisanthonyjames.uboisanthonyjames is more concerned with potential loss of business due to Delilah's disfigurement. So Littlebilldaggettgenehackman.aggettgenehackman decrees that instead of being horsewhipped, the men will have to give Skinnyduboisanthonyjames.uboisanthonyjames some horses. This outrages the women even more, and afterward they meet privately and pool all their resources to offer a reward to anyone who will kill the two attackers.  We meet Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood on his farm trying to deal with some sick hogs. It quickly becomes clear that he is not a very good hog farmer, as he repeatedly falls in the mud when trying to grab a hog. In the midst of this he has a visitor, a young man calling himself the Scofieldkidjaimzwoolvett, who knows Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood by reputation and would like his help in killing Daveyrobcampbell and Mikedavidmucci.avidmucci in return for half the reward money. Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood makes it clear that he is not interested because, since marrying his late wife, he doesn't do the things he used to do anymore. But after the Kid leaves, Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood goes back to his bumbling attempts at tending hogs, and begins to have second thoughts. He sets a can on a tree stump and begins firing at it with his pistol, without hitting it. Finally he goes in the house and gets his rifle, and blows the can away on the first shot.  Back in Big Whiskey, Daveyrobcampbell and Mikedavidmucci.avidmucci show up with the horses for Skinnyduboisanthonyjames. The women throw stones and horse manure at them. Mikedavidmucci.avidmucci has never shown any remorse at any point, but Daveyrobcampbell seems genuinely sorry about what happened to Delilah. He pointedly tells Skinnyduboisanthonyjames.uboisanthonyjames that one of the horses is not for him, and then offers it to Delilah. The women only throw more manure.  Realizing that he will need help in the tracking down the wayward cowboys, Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood decides to contact his former partner, Nedloganmorganfreeman. He says goodbye to his kids, telling them if they need anything to see Nedloganmorganfreeman's common law wife, Sally Two Trees. After several bumbling and unsuccessful attempts to mount his horse, he finally mounts successfully and rides to Nedloganmorganfreeman's. Sally, apparently recognizing that whatever Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood has in mind cannot end well, just glares at him without speaking the entire time he is there. If looks could kill, not only Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood and Nedloganmorganfreeman but the entire movie audience would be dead by the end of the scene. But as it is, the two men ride off in pursuit of the Kid. Eventually they catch him, and soon discern that he is severely nearsighted and can't see a target more than 50 yards away.  The first to arrive in Big Whiskey in pursuit of the reward is a grayhaired Englishman known as English Bobrichardharris. We first meet him traveling on a train with his biographer, named Beauchampsaulrubinek. President Garfield has just been shot , and Bob is lecturing his fellowpassengers on the benefits of monarchy over democracy . He and Beauchampsaulrubinek arrive in Big Whiskey, where Littlebilldaggettgenehackman.aggettgenehackman catches him concealing a gun. He brutally beats and kicks Bob until he is nearly unconscious, then throws both him and Beauchampsaulrubinek in jail. At the jail, Littlebilldaggettgenehackman.aggettgenehackman debunks many of the stories Bob has told Beauchampsaulrubinek about his exploits. Soonbeauchamp is out of his cell and working as Littlebilldaggettgenehackman.s biographer rather than Bob's. Littlebilldaggettgenehackman.aggettgenehackman finally puts Bob on a train out of town. Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood and his companions see the train carrying English Bob go by as they approach town.  A torrential downpour begins, and by the time the Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood party reaches town, Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood is sick with fever. Arriving at the saloon, Nedloganmorganfreeman and the Kid go upstairs to engage the services of the prostitutes, but Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood doesn't do that sort of thing anymore and remains downstairs. Littlebilldaggettgenehackman.aggettgenehackman sizes Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood up as an outoftowner after the reward money, and beats and kicks him in a similar way to what he did to English Bob, has him thrown out into the street, and sends his deputies upstairs after Nedloganmorganfreeman and the Kid. Nedloganmorganfreeman and the Kid escape through a window, manage to get Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood onto his horse, and ride out of town, where Nedloganmorganfreeman nurses Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood back to health with the help of some of the prostitutes.  By the time Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood has regained his health, the rain has stopped but there is snow on the ground. In the next scene the snow is gone, meaning some time has been elapsing as Williammunnyclinteastwood.s partners have scouted out their targets. In that next scene, we see Daveyrobcampbell with a group of cowboys chasing a calf. A shot rings out, hitting Daveyrobcampbell's horse, which falls over, breaking the man's leg and pinning him to the ground. Nedloganmorganfreeman fired the shot, but now he can't bring himself to finish the man off, and the Kid can't see that far, so Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood fires several shots and finally hits him. As Daveyrobcampbell lies dying, he complains of being thirsty. Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood calls out to the other cowboys to give the man a drink, and promises not to shoot. They do, and Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood is true to his word.  Nedloganmorganfreeman has had enough of killing and leaves his companions to return home, but is captured by Littlebilldaggettgenehackman.s men, and we see him being interrogated by Littlebilldaggettgenehackman. Men are also assigned to protect Mikedavidmucci. Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood and the Kid wait outside the house where Mikedavidmucci.avidmucci and his guards are holed up. When Mikedavidmucci.avidmucci comes out to use the outhouse, the Kid waits until he is finished and then shoots him. But the Kid can't deal with the fact that he has killed a man , and resolves to never kill again, telling Williammunnyclinteastwood. I'm not like you. Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood has him drink some whiskey, but it doesn't help.  One of the prostitutes brings the reward money and informs them that Nedloganmorganfreeman has been killed, after revealing Williammunnyclinteastwood.s identity. Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood sends the Kid home with the reward money, telling him to leave his and Nedloganmorganfreeman's shares with his children and take the rest and use it to buy some good spectacles. He then rides toward town, drinking whiskey from a bottle as he goes. Outside the saloon, he sees Nedloganmorganfreeman's body upright in an open casket, with a sign saying that this is what happens to assassins in this town.  Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood enters the saloon, where most of the townsmen have gathered. He asks who owns the establishment, and when Skinnyduboisanthonyjames.uboisanthonyjames identifies himself, Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood tells the men near him to move away, and then shoots him. Littlebilldaggettgenehackman.aggettgenehackman calls him a coward for shooting an unarmed man, but Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood replies, He should have armed himself, if he's going to decorate his saloon with my friend. He then tells those near Littlebilldaggettgenehackman.aggettgenehackman to move away. His shotgun misfires, but he throws it at Littlebilldaggettgenehackman. draws his pistol and shoots him, and shoots several other men attempting to draw guns on him some of them get shots off before Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood kills them, but none hit him.  He then tells everyone who doesn't want to be killed to leave, and all who are able to leave do so. He goes to the bar and helps himself to more whiskey. Beauchampsaulrubinek was not able to leave because of a body lying on top of him. Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood has him give him a rifle lying nearby, which he loads. Beauchampsaulrubinek tries to engage him in conversation about gunfighting, but Williammunnyclinteastwood.s response frightens him into leaving as well. Littlebilldaggettgenehackman.aggettgenehackman turns out to still be alive, but Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood hears him cock his pistol, and steps on his hand before he can get a shot off.  As Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood aims his rife at Littlebilldaggettgenehackman. the latter complains that he doesn't deserve this. Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood replies, 'Deserves' has nothing to do with it. Littlebilldaggettgenehackman.aggettgenehackman then says, I'll see you in hell, Williammunnyclinteastwood. Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood simply replies, Yeah, and shoots him. As he walks to the saloon door, one of the men he shot previously moans in pain, and he shoots him again.  At the door, he announces that he is coming out, that he will kill anyone he sees, and if anyone shoots at him, he will kill not only the shooter but his wife and all his friends and burn his house down. He walks to his horse, and no one shoots. He mounts his horse and as he rides past Nedloganmorganfreeman's body, he announces that if they don't bury Nedloganmorganfreeman right, or if they harm the prostitutes in any way, he'll come back and kill every man in the town.  As the closing credits roll, we learn that Williammunnyclinteastwood.linteastwood subsequently moved with his children to San Francisco, where he prospered in dry goods.