Young Carlfredricksenjeremyleary, a quiet bespectacled boy wearing an old pilot's cap and goggles, watches a film reel in a theater depicting his hero Charlesmuntzchristopherplummer.hristopherplummer, a famous explorer. The reporter speaks of Muntzs.s various accomplishments and discoveries before commenting that he was recently dishonored by scientists who believed his latest find, the large skeleton of a bird, was a hoax. Intent on proving them wrong, Muntzs. is seen boarding his zeppelin with his team of dogs and promises to return once he has brought back living proof of his find. After the show, Carls runs down the street with his balloon, named after Muntzs. zeppelin The Spirit of Adventure. He passes an old, rundown house where he hears someone shout out Muntzs.s famous slogan Adventure is out there  Carls goes inside to investigate and meets a young, outgoing tomboy who shares his passion for exploration and admiration of Charlesmuntzchristopherplummer. Startled by her loud, boyish demeanor at first, Carls loses his balloon in the rafters. The girl, Ellieeliedocter, helps him retrieve it, though Carls falls from a beam and breaks his arm. Ellieeliedocter sneaks into his room that night and shows him her adventure book where she expresses a desire to one day move to the top of Paradise Falls in South America, showing him a picture that she 'ripped right out of a library book'. She makes him promise that they will go together someday before leaving. A musical montage shows Carls and Ellieeliedocter eventually getting married and moving into the old house where they first met. Their marriage is blissful and they get jobs as a balloon salesman and zookeeper, respectively. When they discover that Ellieeliedocter is unable to have children, they make a pact to save money to travel to Paradise Falls. However, as the years pass, they are forced to dig into their Falls fund for other obligations. One day, an elderly Carls realizes that, despite living happily together, they never fulfilled their old promise and decides to surprise Ellieeliedocter on a picnic with tickets to South America. However, Ellieeliedocter's declining health puts her in the hospital and she eventually passes away, leaving Carls alone.  Carls remains in his home, a retired and sour recluse, as the city grows around him. He is encouraged to move to a retirement home due to increased construction, but often argues with the foreman Johnratzenberger and refuses to leave. One day, he meets Russelljordannagai.ordannagai, a young wilderness explorer scout who attempts to assist Carls in order to earn his 'assisting the elderly' badge. Carls tricks Russelljordannagai.ordannagai into 'assisting' him by telling him to find and get rid of a 'snipe' that invades his yard. When a construction worker accidentally breaks Carls's mailbox, a part of the house and a part of Ellieeliedocter that Carls cherishes, Carls hits him over the head with his walker. The assault lands him in court where he is forced to move out of his home by the next day. Workers from Shady Oaks retirement home arrive to pick him up the following morning but are shocked to find Carls releasing millions of helium balloons into the air which detach his house from its foundation, lifting it over the city and into the sky.  Comfortably away from the city, Carls sets a course for South America and rests in his chair until hes interrupted by a knock at the door. Upon answering, he discovers Russelljordannagai.ordannagai hanging on to dear life on his porch apparently, Russelljordannagai.ordannagai had been snipe searching under Carls porch. Carls lets him in and decides to descend to return Russelljordannagai.ordannagai home before a severe storm hits. The house is knocked around in the turbulence but Carls manages to tie most of his items down before falling asleep. He's woken the next morning by Russelljordannagai. who tells him that they're over South America , though the ground is hidden by a dense fog. Carls releases some balloons to descend but they hit ground early and are knocked out of the house. They manage to hold onto it using a hose attached to the porch while the fog lifts to reveal that they are standing on a high plateau opposite Paradise Falls. Unable to climb back into the house, they resolve to walk to the falls before the helium in the balloons lets out.  Meanwhile, a chase is progressing in the jungle. Three dogs with red lights on their collars are in hot pursuit of what appears to be a giant bird, but they lose the trail when their sensitive ears pick up the fine tuning of Carls's hearing aid. Russelljordannagai.ordannagai stops to go to the bathroom and happens upon a giant bird which he lures closer with a chocolate bar. He introduces the colorful creature to Carls and gives it the name Kevin. Kevin follows them as they continue their journey but runs off when they approach the silhouette of a man who calls out to them. However, they see that the man is nothing more than a trick of the eye caused by overlapping stones. They are then approached by a golden retriever with a red light on his collar. Russelljordannagai.ordannagai tells him to sit and speak and is surprised when the dog answers, using the device on his collar. He tells them his name is Dugbobpeterson and that he is a tracker looking for a bird, at which point Kevin tackles him. The foursome continue their journey, Carls begrudging the additional company. At one point, Kevin loudly calls out and is answered by smaller calls. Dugbobpeterson says that Kevin is calling to her babies and Russelljordannagai.ordannagai realizes that Kevin is a girl.  Meanwhile, the three dogs seen chasing the bird earlier have picked up the scent of Carls and Russelljordannagai. who they nickname the mailman. The leader Alpha Bobpeterson, a doberman pinscher, tells Betadelroylindo, a rottweiler, and Gammajeromeranft, a bulldog, that they must be vigilant and continue their search. His speaking device appears to be damaged, causing him to talk in a high pitch. Using the device on Gamma's collar, Alpha calls to Dugbobpeterson, who they'd sent on a false mission in order to get rid of him, but finds him in the company of the bird they'd been after. They soon track him down and come upon Carls and Russelljordannagai. but Kevin has already run off. Instead, they choose to take Carls and Russelljordannagai.ordannagai to their master. Entering a large gorge, Carls and Russelljordannagai.ordannagai meet a large pack of dogs, all with hightech collars on, before meeting their master  who turns out to be none other than an elderly Charlesmuntzchristopherplummer.  Muntzs. invites them into The Spirit of Adventure as guests, but his behavior soon turns hostile when he finds out that Russelljordannagai.ordannagai has adopted a new pet bird. Carls is shocked to see that Muntzs. has spent all the past years hunting for the bird which he was deemed a fraud for and has gone mad as a result. Muntzs. reveals a table of head mannequins wearing various headgear and grimly knocks each one off with his cane as he describes the stories their wearers told him claiming that each one was actually after his bird. Carls and Russelljordannagai.ordannagai run away from the zeppelin just as Muntzs. discovers the bird calling out from the roof of Carls's home. Riding on Kevin's back and assisted by Dugbobpeterson, who calls Carls his new master, they barely escape capture by Muntzs.s dogs, though Kevin is injured in the process. Carls agrees to help Kevin get back to her babies safely but, just before Kevin can reenter her labyrinth home, a net flies out and captures her. Muntzs. and his dogs have arrived in the zeppelin, led to the spot by a tracking device on Dugbobpeterson's collar. Muntzs. throws a lantern beneath Carls's home, setting fire to it. Carls ignores Kevin and runs over to extinguish the flames as Muntzs. takes Kevin on board and leaves. Angry and disheartened, Carls yells at Dugbobpeterson and tells Russelljordannagai.ordannagai that he's taking his home to Paradise Falls if it kills him. He manages to set his house down on the Falls, but loses Russelljordannagai.s respect for leaving Kevin.  Carls goes inside the house and sits down to look at Ellieeliedocter's adventure book. Saddened that she never got to see the Falls, he is about to close it when he discovers added pictures near the end, documenting their life together. On the last page is a note written by Ellieeliedocter that says thanks for the adventure, now go have a new one Enlightened and inspired, Carls goes outside in time to see Russelljordannagai.ordannagai take off with a few balloons, using a leaf blower as propulsion. Carls empties his home of extra furniture, allowing it to become airborne once again, and follows Russelljordannagai. He finds Dugbobpeterson on his porch and happily exclaims that Dugbobpeterson is his dog and he is his master. Russelljordannagai.ordannagai manages to sneak aboard Muntzs.s zeppelin but is quickly caught and tied to a chair. Muntzs. sits him on the ships bombbay doors and flips the switch for them to open. Carls flies in and manages to rescue Russelljordannagai.ordannagai in time, setting him inside the house while he goes into the zeppelin with Dugbobpeterson to fetch Kevin. Hes able to distract the guard dogs with a tennis ball from his walker and frees Kevin but is confronted by Muntzs. They engage in a sword fight  while Russelljordannagai. freed of his ties, fights off a squadron of dogs in fighter planes. He regains control of the house and returns to help Carls, who has climbed to the top of the zeppelin with Kevin. Dugbobpeterson has, meanwhile, faced off against Alpha and outsmarted him, effectively becoming the new alpha, and runs off to meet the others topside.  Kevin, Dugbobpeterson, and Carls run for the house which Russelljordannagai.ordannagai has landed on the wing of the zeppelin, but Muntzs. appears with a rifle and shoots at them, causing the house to slip and dangle in the air. Carls struggles to hold onto the house with the hose while Muntzs. goes in after Kevin. Carls lures Kevin, carrying Dugbobpeterson and Russelljordannagai. out of the house with chocolate and Muntzs. attempts to jump out of the window after them. He doesn't make the jump as his foot gets caught in some balloon strings and, weighing too much for the balloons to support him, he falls to his death. As Kevin, Dugbobpeterson, and Russelljordannagai.ordannagai make it back to the zeppelin, Carls is forced to release his house, which slowly descends into the clouds, a loss which Carls accepts as being for the best.  Kevin is returned to her three chicks and Carls takes Russelljordannagai.ordannagai and Dugbobpeterson home where Russelljordannagai.ordannagai attends his senior explorer ceremony. When Russelljordannagai.s father fails to present him with his final badge, Carls fulfills the role and gives Russelljordannagai.ordannagai a grape soda badge that Ellieeliedocter gave him when they first met, calling it the Ellieeliedocter badge. Afterwards, they sit on a curb together in front of an ice cream shop, Carls acting as a surrogate grandfather to Russelljordannagai. The Spirit of Adventure anchored above them.  At Paradise Falls, Carls and Ellieeliedocter's house has landed right at the spot where it was meant to be on the cliff overlooking the falls.