A woman's face gives way to a kaleidoscope of credits, signalling the start of Alfredhitchcock's Vertigo to Bernardhermanns haunting score.  A criminal climbs up the rungs of the ladder on a dark San Francisco night. Johnscottieferguson , a detective, and a police officer are hot on his trail. They chase him across the top of buildings. The thief jumps between two buildings, making it across. The police officer follows, but Johnscottieferguson can't get his footing. He slips. Johnscottieferguson hangs on to the gutter as his fear of heights kicks in. The police officer tries to grab his hand, but he falls to his death. Johnscottieferguson witnesses this and clutches the gutter.  Months after the incident, Johnscottieferguson reclines in the home of Marjoriemidgewood , a painter and underwear designer. She is concerned about Johnscottieferguson.s plans now that he is back in shape. He has quit the police force due to his acrophobia, and does not want to be a desk jockey. Midge and Johnscottieferguson used to be engaged back in college . She urges him to take a vacation. Don't be so motherly, responds Johnscottieferguson. They discuss an old college buddy, Gavinelster.lster , who wants to meet with Johnscottieferguson. Before Johnscottieferguson prepares to meet Gavinelster, he explains his plan to get over his fear. He first stands on a step stool. Midge gives him a ladder chair, and Johnscottieferguson is able to handle the first two steps, but when he reaches the top, he looks out the window and panics. He collapses in her arms.  A familiar pedestrian crosses the street near the docks. Johnscottieferguson meets Gavinelster.lster who is in the shipping business. Gavinelster.lster had married into the successful shipping business, and he wants Johnscottieferguson to tail his wife. He does not suspect infidelity, but has suspicions that his wife has been possessed by something. Her words would fade, and she would become distant. She wanders, and even moves differently. Johnscottieferguson initially thinks he is crazy, but is intrigued. Gavinelster.lster tells him to meet them at Ernie's Restaurant the following night.  Ernie's Restaurant is a lavish, upscale eatery, plush and scarlet. Johnscottieferguson first spots Madeleineelster.lster  who is stunning, with platinum blonde hair and a green shawl. He is mesmerized by her.  The next morning, he stalks her outside her house. She wears a simple gray suit with white gloves, as she gets into her green automobile. Johnscottieferguson trails her through the streets of San Francisco, as she visits a flower shop and purchases a small bouquet. He then trails her to the Mission Dolores, where she goes through the chapel to the cemetery, where she stands at a grave. As she exits, Johnscottieferguson notes the headstone, which reads Carlottavaldes.aldes born December 3 1831 died March 5 1857. He then follows her to the Palace of the Legions of Honour, an art museum. Madeleineelster.lster sits, staring at a painting for hours. Johnscottieferguson notices that the bouquet she purchased is just like the one in the drawing. Also, her hair is done exactly like the woman in the painting. Johnscottieferguson discovers from the curator, that the painting is titled A Portrait of Carlottavaldes. Finally, he follows her to the McKittrick Hotel, where Johnscottieferguson observes Madeleineelster.lster on the second story. Johnscottieferguson enters the hotel, which has a very baroque look to it. Johnscottieferguson asks the manager of the McKittrick Hotel , who the occupant of the room is. She hesitates to tell him, until Johnscottieferguson reveals his badge. The manager then notes that she has not been in the room all day. Johnscottieferguson finds this impossible, and goes up to her room. He looks down the street to discover that her car is gone.  Johnscottieferguson returns to Midge's home where she tells him of San Francisco historian Popliebel , who owns the Argosy Book Shop. Pop tells Johnscottieferguson that a rich man built the house for Carlottavaldes.aldes, and they had a child. However, the rich man threw Carlottavaldes.aldes out, and took her child. Carlottavaldes.aldes went from depressed to insane, and took her own life.  On the drive home, Midge and Johnscottieferguson talk about the portrait he shows her the catalogue picture. The resemblance is uncanny. Another conversation with Gavinelster.lster reveals that Madeleineelster.lster had started to wear Carlottavaldes.s jewellery, particularly a ruby pendant shown in the painting. Madeleineelster.s greatgrandmother was Carlottavaldes.aldes, a fact that Madeleineelster.lster does not know. Gavinelster.lster only knows this fact, because Madeleineelster.s mother told him.  Johnscottieferguson follows Madeleineelster.lster the next day to the Palace of the Legions, where she watches the portrait. Then he follows her to Fort Point near the Golden Gate Bridge. Madeleineelster.lster strolls by the shore, throwing petals into the bay, until she jumps in. Johnscottieferguson dives after her. He tries to revive her, but she is out cold, and he takes her back to his apartment.  She wakes up naked in his bed, where she is handed a red bathrobe. He asks her if she remembers anything, and explains that he rescued her from drowning. Madeleineelster.lster maintains that she fainted and fell. He questions her, Has this ever happened to you before He gets a telephone call from Gavinelster. concerned about the whereabouts of his wife. Johnscottieferguson reassures him that Madeleineelster.lster is at his apartment. Gavinelster.lster confides that Madeleineelster.lster is twentysix  the same age at which Carlottavaldes.aldes committed suicide. Johnscottieferguson hears the door close, and realises that Madeleineelster.lster has left. As Madeleineelster.lster drives away from Johnscottieferguson.s house, Midge arrives just in time to have a misunderstanding. She believes that Johnscottieferguson and Madeleineelster.lster are in a relationship.  The next morning, Johnscottieferguson trails Madeleineelster.lster through the streets of San Francisco, only to find that Madeleineelster.lster has been looking for Johnscottieferguson.s house. Johnscottieferguson catches her leaving a thank you letter for saving her. She did not know the address, but followed the Coit Tower. Johnscottieferguson insists that they wander together, because they are both alone.  They arrive at Big Basin Redwoods State Park, where they admire the ancient redwoods. As they view a crosssection of a tree with the approximate dates of historical events. Madeleineelster.lster goes into a trance, seemingly becoming Carlottavaldes. recounting the dates of her birth and death. Madeleineelster.lster wanders deeper into the woods, and Johnscottieferguson follows her. He confronts her about the jump, and tries to bring Madeleineelster.lster back. By the shore, Madeleineelster.lster begins to reveal fragments of her vague memories an empty grave with no name, waiting for her an empty room in which she sits alone and finally a tower, bell, and garden in Spain. Madeleineelster.lster admits she is not crazy she does not want to die. They kiss as the waves crash onto the rocks. Johnscottieferguson promises he will never leave her.  Midge had sent a note to Johnscottieferguson. who arrives at her house. Midge had been painting a picture of herself as Carlottavaldes.aldes. Johnscottieferguson is not amused. Distressed, he leaves her home. Midge ruins the painting, upset that she admitted she had fallen for him again.  Madeleineelster.lster returns to Johnscottieferguson.s house, where she tells him of an awful dream, with a tower, a bell, and a village. As she describes the location in detail, Johnscottieferguson finishes her descriptions. You've been there he exclaims. Johnscottieferguson is talking about the San Juanbautista, a mission that has been converted into a museum. They drive to the mission.  When they arrive at the mission, they enter the livery stable, where Johnscottieferguson tries to dismiss the dreams logically. He points out certain objects that are real. They kiss. Madeleineelster.lster explains she must do something. She asks him if he believes she loves him. He replies yes. And if you lose me, then you'll know I, I loved you. And I wanted to go on loving you'', she says. She starts to go to the church, when Johnscottieferguson realizes she is going to the bell tower. Johnscottieferguson chases her into the chapel, and sees her run up the stairs. He follows her, but as he looks down, his acrophobia sets in he gets vertigo. He cannot follow her up to the top of the bell tower. He watches, helpless, in fear and horror as Madeleineelster.s body plunges to the tiles below. Johnscottieferguson staggers out of the mission, sun blinding his eyes, dumbfounded.  At the a judicial hearing concerning Madeleineelster.s death, the judge is particularly cruel to Johnscottieferguson. as he insults him for letting his weakness get in the way of saving Madeleineelster. The court rules the incident a suicide. Gavinelster.lster comforts Johnscottieferguson. while telling him that, with the loss of his wife, he can no longer stay in San Francisco. Gavinelster.lster sets off to Europe.  Johnscottieferguson has trouble sleeping. Blue and purple flashes signal his nightmare, as an animated bouquet unravels. He hallucinates of Carlottavaldes.aldes at the hearing, with special emphasis on the ruby necklace. Johnscottieferguson walks into the cemetery where there is an open grave. Johnscottieferguson falls into a tunnel, then his body lands next to Madeleineelster.s on the tiles of the mission. He wakes up in a cold sweat.  Midge arrives to care for Johnscottieferguson in a psychiatric ward. She tries to comfort him, mother's here. Johnscottieferguson will not speak, he is in a daze. The doctor believes that Johnscottieferguson will be incapacitated for a year due to stress and anxiety from his depression and guilt.  When Johnscottieferguson gets out of the hospital, he visits the old Gavinelster home, and spots the green car. In the distance, a woman in gray suit is getting in it. Unfortunately for him, it is not Madeleineelster.lster it is an old neighbour who bought the car from Gavinelster. At Ernie's he spots a woman in grey, but again, it is not Madeleineelster. He even sees Madeleineelster.lster at the Palace of the Legions, but once again, it is not her. While looking at a bouquet at a flower shop, he sees a striking brunette in a green suit. Although she doesn't resemble Madeleineelster.lster in dress, style, or movement, the face is a dead ringer. He follows her to the Hotel Empire, and sees her through the fifth floor window.  When Johnscottieferguson knocks on the door, the woman is concerned that he is a creep. He reassures her he just wants to talk. He spits questions at her, and she reveals that she is Judybarton.arton  from Salina, Kansas. Judybarton.arton realises that Johnscottieferguson.s heart is broken for his former flame, and she takes pity on him. She agrees to go for dinner with him at Ernie's.  Johnscottieferguson leaves and Judybarton.arton tells her story via flashback. She WAS Madeleineelster. running up the steps of the bell tower. At the top, Gavinelster.lster was there, holding the body of the REAL Madeleineelster.lster, dressed in exactly the same wardrobe as Judybarton. It was the real Madeleineelster.s body that was thrown off the bell tower, with Judybarton.arton letting out the scream. Judybarton.arton reveals the gray suit that she wore as her disguise, hidden in the back of her closet. She begins to write a letter to Johnscottieferguson. explaining that she was Gavinelster.s accomplice in the murder of his wife. She had become her doppelgnger to fool Johnscottieferguson. and use him as a witness to explain that Madeleineelster.lster was mentally unstable. Gavinelster.lster had known about his vertigo, and knew that Johnscottieferguson would never make it to the top of the bell tower. Judybarton.arton reconsiders this letter, and tears it up.  That night, Johnscottieferguson suspects he sees Madeleineelster.lster at Ernie's. He escorts Judybarton.arton home that night, her apartment flooded with the green neon light of the Hotel Empire sign. Although he loves Madeleineelster. there is something about Judybarton.arton that he can't shake. They agree to meet the next morning.  They engage in a series of dates, with Johnscottieferguson becoming happier with the relationship. However, he begins to buy her clothes, searching obsessively for the gray suit and white gloves that Madeleineelster.lster used to wear. As Judybarton.arton begins to break down, Johnscottieferguson also realizes that she must dye her brown hair, platinum blonde. Although Judybarton.arton begs him to love Judybarton.arton, she has fallen so in love with him that she will conform to his image.  Her makeover complete, she returns to a waiting Johnscottieferguson who has her pull her hair back for the final transformation. In a dreamlike state, with the green glow all around them, they embrace and kiss. The room turns into the livery stable from the Mission, Johnscottieferguson.s last kiss with Madeleineelster. and then back to the apartment.  A couple of nights later, the two decide to go out to Ernie's. Judybarton.arton dresses up, and wears the ruby pendant. Johnscottieferguson realizes that something is amiss. He suddenly becomes distant. He passes Ernie's and continues driving past the Redwood trees. He tells her he has one final thing to do. They arrive at the mission, where Johnscottieferguson forces Judybarton.arton to reenact Madeleineelster.s death. He wants to use this as a second chance to save Madeleineelster.lster and exorcise his demons forever.  As he reaches the top of the bell tower, conquering his acrophobia, he puts the whole puzzle together. He realizes that Judybarton.arton was the counterfeit all along. He never knew Madeleineelster. He was being set up as Gavinelster.lster's witness in the murder of Gavinelster's wife. He pulls Judybarton.arton to the top of the tower, where she protests. Judybarton.arton pleads that she has fallen in love with Johnscottieferguson. They kiss. The sudden appearance of a nun, however, shocks Judybarton. who plummets to her death off the ledge. A stunned Johnscottieferguson is distraught, losing the same woman twice in the same fashion.