Paddyconlon.onlon , exits a Pittsburgh church. He starts up his old Chevy and drives home, listening to an audiotape of Moby Dick. He arrives home to find his estranged teenage son Tommyk.  sitting on the stoop drinking a bottle of whiskey and popping pills. Visibly inebriated, Tommyk. offers Paddyconlon.onlon a drink, which Paddyconlon.onlon refuses and invites his son in for a cup of coffee instead. Inside Tommyk. shares little concerning his whereabouts over the last few years and instead spends his time teasing his reformed alcoholic father before passing out in his easy chair.  Brendanconlon.onlon  lives in suburban Philadelphia with his ideal family, but he and his wife Tess  lament their economic hardships. Brendanconlon.onlon works full time as a high school physics teacher, and Tess works two jobs just to stay afloat. Brendanconlon.onlon visits the local credit union to discuss refinancing options with the bank manager, but learns that he is underwater in his mortgage and will lose his home within a month. Optionlessbrendan tells Tess that he'll spend his nights bouncing at a strip club a couple of towns over to make extra money.  Tommyk. makes his way through Pittsburgh and comes to an old gym that he frequented as a kid. He signs up for a monthly membership and begins to train again, while watching professional MMA fighter Pete Maddoggrimes Maddoggrimes , who easily knocks out numerous sparring partners. Maddoggrimes' manager puts out the word that any fighter willing to practice against Maddoggrimes will get 200 on the spot. Tommyk. accepts the offer, but is brushed off by Maddoggrimes and his manager. Tommyk. persists and is eventually allowed into the ring. Maddoggrimes dances across the mat, takes the first swing, and is instantly knocked out by Tommyk. with a swift rush of crushing blows. Tommyk. tells Maddoggrimes's manager that he'll be expecting that 200. Unbeknownst to Tommyk. the sparring session had already been recorded and uploaded to YouTube.  Brendanconlon.onlon wraps up his teaching job in the early afternoon, calls his wife, and tells her that he'll be heading to his bouncing job and to say goodnight to his daughters. He pulls up outside a strip club where a makeshift boxing ring is set up in the parking lot. Brendanconlon.onlon lied to Tess. He enters the ring and squeaks out a win over his opponent. Later that evening he arrives home and awakens Tess, who is shocked to see his right eye swollen and bruised. She asks why he lied, and he admits that the house will be foreclosed on and that amateur MMA fights pay more in one night than bouncing does in a month. She pleads with him to stop.  Maddoggrimes's manager knocks on Paddyconlon.onlon's front door and tells Paddyconlon.onlon that Tommyk.iordon gave him this address when he signed up for his gym membership and that he would like to train and manage Tommyk. Paddyconlon.onlon rejects the offer, citing that Tommyk. doesn't live there, but he agrees tp pass the offer along to him. The next day Paddyconlon.onlon eats lunch at a local diner and is surprised when Tommyk. walks in. Tommyk. wants Paddyconlon.onlon to train him, as he did when he was a teenager. Tommyk. explains that this isn't meant to be a bonding moment for the two of them Paddyconlon.onlon will act as his trainer, and not his father. Paddyconlon.onlon accepts the proposal under multiple conditions. He tells Tommyk. to empty the prescription pill bottles from his pockets, to lay off alcohol, coffee, and junk food. Tommyk. reluctantly accepts the conditions.  Brendanconlon.onlon goes to work the following day, his shiner in fullview, and catches gawking looks of students and teachers. In class, one of his students comments that his brother saw him win his MMA fight in the strip club parking lot, and wonders if it's true. Before Brendanconlon.onlon replies, the school principal Joezito  peeks his head into the classroom and tells Brendanconlon.onlon to meet him in his office. Principalzito tells Brendanconlon.onlon that he can't fight in a strip club parking lot and work full time at the school. Brendanconlon.onlon is placed on suspension without pay for the duration of the semester. Without pay, Brendanconlon.onlon decides that the only way to make house payments is to show up at more parking lot fights. Tess reluctantly caves to Brendanconlon.s decision.  Brendanconlon.onlon goes to meet his old fighting coach, Frankcampana.ampana , who is currently grooming an upandcoming MMA fighter for the Sparta tournament in Atlantic City. Brendanconlon.onlon pleads for training from Frankcampana. Frankcampana.ampana caves and allows Brendanconlon.onlon to train with his team. Frankcampana.s unorthodox training methods prove to work well for Brendanconlon. who quickly regains his strength and agility. Brendanconlon.onlon arrives home one night and is surprised to see Paddyconlon.onlon parked in front of his house. Paddyconlon.onlon asks if he can see his granddaughters, but Brendanconlon.onlon only sees a drunk and dismisses him. Paddyconlon.onlon lets slip that he's 1,000 days sober and that Tommyk. is training with him. This surprises Brendanconlon.onlon because Tommyk. hated Paddyconlon.onlon even more than he did, and chose to leave Paddyconlon.onlon with their mom while Brendanconlon.onlon stayed behind to marry Tess. Brendanconlon.onlon tells Paddyconlon.onlon to leave. At the peak of his training, Frankcampana.s MMA contender suffers a crippling injury, leaving him without a fighter for Sparta. Brendanconlon.onlon convinces Frankcampana.ampana to put his trust in him and to allow him to fight in the tournament, which carries a 5,000,000 prize.  The clip of Tommyk.s beating Maddoggrimes Maddoggrimes has swept across the Internet. In Iraq, a trio of soldiers watches it on a laptop. One of the soldiers recognizes Tommyk.s face and hurriedly returns to his tent, where he searches his bag for a helmetcam videotape. He watches the videotape, in which half a dozen soldiers flee from a sinking tank after being rescued by Tommyk. Tommyk. saved the unit. Shortly thereafter Tommyk. calls a woman in El Paso, TX. In her home, numerous framed portraits of a Latino man in Marines uniform adorn the walls in one photo, Tommyk. also in uniform, stands next to the Latino Marine, smiling. Tommyk.nows the woman and her children, and she knows him. They both speak of the deceased Marine Tommyk.s best friend and the closest thing he ever had to a brother.  Both Tommyk. and Brendanconlon.onlon arrive at Sparta Tommyk. with his father, and Brendanconlon.onlon with Frankcampana. For the first day, all the tournament competitors give press interviews, except for Tommyk. who ducks the media attention. Brendanconlon.onlon sees Tommyk. from across the room, and wants to approach him, but Tommyk. flees with Paddyconlon. That evening Tommyk. walks along the New Jersey shore and sees Brendanconlon.onlon approaching him. Brendanconlon.onlon attempts numerous times to apologize for his lack of contact over the last few years, saying he didn't know where to look. Tommyk. accuses Brendanconlon.onlon of abandoning him and their mother so that he could have a girlfriend. Tommyk. refuses to acknowledge Brendanconlon.onlon as his brother, and tells him that his brother died in Iraq. The two part ways.  Sparta begins with 16 contenders in four rounds. Winners move on to the next round. To make matters worse, the undefeated Russian Powerhouse known only as Koba  is making his American debut. Tommyk. enters his first fight and is believed to be a fluke or a Youtube sensation and nothing more. His opponent is heavily favored to win. Tommyk. enters the ring with no music or fanfare, followed by Paddyconlon. His opponent enters, the bell rings, and with a single strike, Tommyk..O.s his opponent. Without bothering to check with the ref, Tommyk. turns and exits the ring as the crowd cheers.  Brendanconlon.onlon prepares for his first fight, and he is an even greater underdog than Tommyk. Beethoven's Ode to Joy echoes through the arena as he walks up to the ring. His opponent, Midnight, is heavily favored to win. For the first two rounds, Brendanconlon.onlon is beaten to a pulp. Midnight is faster and stronger than Brendanconlon. During timeouts, Frankcampana.ampana reminds Brendanconlon.onlon why he is fighting. If Brendanconlon.onlon wants to go home, all he has to do is tap out, but if he doesn't win, there won't be a home to go home to. During the final round, Brendanconlon.onlon manages to put Midnight in a painful hold and eventually forces him to tap out. The MMA community is shocked that a high school physics teacher has made it through the first round of the tournament. He texts Tess, who had refused to watch his first fight. She jumps for joy when she receives the I WON message.  Tommyk. prepares for his second fight. Once again he enters the arena without music or entourage. The fight begins and Tommyk. immediately knocks out his opponent before confidently exiting the arena. Paddyconlon.onlon smirks. Later that evening, Paddyconlon.onlon watches the news and is surprised to see a story about Tommyk. The soldier from Iraq has made his helmetcam video public, and the world is now aware that Tommyk. is an exMarine and a war hero. Paddyconlon.onlon calls for Tommyk. to watch, but Tommyk. is uninterested. He leaves the hotel room and heads to the casino, where he mindlessly feeds a slot machine. Paddyconlon.onlon catches up with him and asks why he never told him about being a war hero. Tommyk. loses his composure and shouts at Paddyconlon. He tells him that his platoon in Iraq was on patrol when they were fired upon by friendly forces. His best friend, along with the rest of his unit, was killed, leaving Tommyk. as the sole survivor. Fed up, Tommyk. deserted the corps and fled. One his way he crossed paths with a sinking tank, and feeling compelled to help, he saved those inside, including the soldier with the helmetcam. While he becomes famous as the soldier who ripped a tank open with his bare hands, Tommyk. doesn't feel like a hero. All he wants is to win Sparta and send his winnings to the family of his fallen Marine brother. His story has a single gaping hole, though The Marine Corps has no record of a Tommyk.iordon . Tommyk. berates Paddyconlon.onlon and tells him, among other things, to go to hell.  Brendanconlon.onlon prepares for his second fight. Once again he enters the ring and barely survives each round. His stronger, faster opponent nearly bests him, but Brendanconlon.onlon manages to put him into an inescapable and painful hold. Brendanconlon.onlon wins, once again, by tapout. Back in Philly, his students are eager to support Brendanconlon. or Mr. C. They approach Principalzito and ask if they can watch Sparta on the big screen in the school gym. Joezito denies their request, telling them to find somewhere else. Secretly Joezito watches the fights from home, cheering Brendanconlon.onlon on.  Tommyk. awakens on the morning of his third fight, after having scolded his father, to the sound of Paddyconlon.s drunken slurring of Moby Dick. Heartbroken after the night before, Paddyconlon.onlon has consumed all the liquor in the minibar. He shouts at Ahab and his crew to turn around and leave the whale alone. Tommyk. wrestles with the old man, and lays down with him in his bed, where he hugs him until he passes out.  On the night of his third fight, Tommyk. will battle Maddoggrimes Maddoggrimes again. Maddoggrimes has been badmouthing Tommyk. ever since they first met in the gym. He argues that Tommyk. suckerpunched him, and had he known that Tommyk. was an experienced fighter, he would have been more brutal. Once again Tommyk. enters the arena alone without a provided soundtrack, only to hear the chorus of Marines seated in the stands behind him. He briefly nods to them before facing Maddoggrimes, who teases and toys with Tommyk. As the fight progresses, Tommyk. easily drops Maddoggrimes to the mat and pummels him into unconsciousness. The ref pulls Tommyk. off of Maddoggrimes's unconscious body, and Tommyk. immediately exits the arena to the cheers of the Marines.  Brendanconlon.s third fight is the most lopsided so far. His opponent is the undefeated Russian Koba. Brendanconlon.onlon and Frankcampana.ampana enter the arena and Frankcampana.ampana gestures to the front row Tess has come to watch Brendanconlon.onlon fight Koba. In Philadelphia, Brendanconlon.s students have rented a drivein theater so they can watch the fights. Principalzito arrives to watch, too. The fight begins, and Koba proves to be Brendanconlon.s toughest opponent thus far. He bloodies Brendanconlon.s face and nearly forces him to tap out during the first two rounds. Tess and Frankcampana.ampana watch in horror as Brendanconlon.s dreams seemingly slip away. Brendanconlon.onlon rallies his strength and attempts numerous times to put Koba in a hold. He finally succeeds and Koba, unable to escape, taps out. The arena is shocked. Brendanconlon.onlon and Tess kiss, and all celebrate the defeat of the undefeated.  On the day of the fourth fight, news comes of Tommyk.s true identity. Tommyk. never enlisted in the Marine Corps as Tommyk.iordon, but rather as Tommyk.onlon. The Marine Corps sees that Tommyk.onlon deserted in Iraq and will place him under military arrest after the tournament. The greatest shock to those watching is that the final two fighters in Sparta are brothers. Brendanconlon.onlon enters the arena first to Ode to Joy, followed shortly by Tommyk. with no sight of Paddyconlon. Before the fight begins, Brendanconlon.onlon asks Tommyk. where Paddyconlon.onlon is, but gets no reply. The fight begins, and a ragefilled Tommyk. pummels Brendanconlon.  The first round comes to an end with a late punch by Tommyk. and a bloodied Brendanconlon. Frankcampana.ampana reminds Brendanconlon.onlon to maintain composure. The second round mirrors the first. Tommyk. unleashes punishing blows while Brendanconlon.onlon does his best to try and trap Tommyk. in a hold. The second round comes to an end. The third round begins, and despite multiple severe blows, Brendanconlon.onlon manages to put Tommyk. in a hold, with his left arm trapped beneath Brendanconlon.s knee. Tommyk. elbows Brendanconlon.onlon in the face multiple times, and seconds before the round ends, he overextends his left arm, exerting an audible CRACK. His tendon snaps and Brendanconlon.onlon hears it. Brendanconlon.onlon tells Frankcampana.ampana to stop the fight, as Tommyk.s left arm is basically broken. Frankcampana.ampana ignores the pleas and tells Brendanconlon.onlon to finish him off in the fourth round. The fourth round begins. Tommyk. attempts to conceal his dangling left arm as he takes poorly aimed jabs with his right. Brendanconlon.onlon backs away and asks why Tommyk. wants to continue to fight. While he attempts to convince Tommyk. to stop numerous times, he realizes that Tommyk. won't quit. He spins around and latches Tommyk. into a painful hold. While Tommyk. is still held down by Brendanconlon. and their father helplessly watches, Brendanconlon.onlon tells him, I love you I love you, Tommyk. We then see Tommyk. tap out on Brendanconlon.s shoulder. Brendanconlon.onlon is victorious, but he is more concerned for Tommyk.s welfare. He wraps his arms around his brother as he lays huddled on the mat. He shoos the cameras and people away and the two walk into the tunnel. Paddyconlon.onlon looks on from the stands and tears dampen his cheeks. The final image we're left with is the two brothers walking down the tunnel, Tommyk. slouched over, Brendanconlon.s right arm around Tommyk.s shoulders and his left arm holding Tommyk.s broken arm, with Tommyk.s right hand on top of Brendanconlon.s hand.