The films opens with Andrews.eimann playing the drums at Shaffer Conservatory of Music, the music school in USA and he's just an alternate drummer in some school band. Andrews. abruptly stops playing drums when the band conductor, Terencefletcher appears at the door in front of him and asking Andrews. some personal information of him. When Terencefletcher asks Andrews. why he stopped playing, he resumes playing drums. After he finishes playing, Terencefletcher says he did not mean to resume playing then he asks Andrews. to show his rudiments by playing the drums again. While Andrews. plays drums, Terencefletcher slams the door but he comes back to retrieve his forgotten jacket. The next day, Andrews. enters one class aside from Terencefletcher and there, he meets the drummer named Ryanconnelly. Shortly, the professor arrives and the class performs Billy's An. Andrews. sees the man in silhouette looking at the door. After the class, Andrews. peeks into one of the classrooms where the class is handled by Terencefletcher. and he is being looked at by Terencefletcher. Later, back at the Studio Band, Andrews. is playing drums as core drummer. Suddenly, Terencefletcher breaks inside and Andrews. becomes horrified of him. Terencefletcher conducts every saxophonist and bassist one by one and finally the drums. After that, Terencefletcher tells Andrews. to come and he is told to come at his room tomorrow at 6 in the morning. Andrews. meets Nicole, the girl working at the cinema and invites her to go out with him. The next day, Andrews. realizes that he is late for class. Andrews. struggles and rushes quickly to the school, only he goes inside the empty classroom. Andrews. knows that the class actually starts at 9 AM and he waits three hours before the class. At exactly 9 am, Terencefletcher arrives and begins conducting the song called Whiplash. During the band practice, Terencefletcher confronts then suddenly yells at a saxophonist named Metz playing outoftune and angrily tells him to get out of the Studio Band. This escalates Terencefletcher.s abusiveness and wrath. Terencefletcher has the class take a break. Terencefletcher and Andrews. have a conversation about his life and family. After the break, the class resumes. But when Terencefletcher loses the patience of Andrews.s drum tempo, Terencefletcher throws a chair at Andrews. Terencefletcher slaps Andrews. every four in 12 counts he makes and he will not stop questioning until Andrews. answers whether he is dragging or rushing. Andrews. answers rushing then Terencefletcher forces Andrews. to tell the whole band that he is really upset, louder Terencefletcher then mocks Andrews. about his parents being separated. Once again, Terencefletcher tells Andrews. that he is upset, louder. Thus, Andrews. is being embarrassed and insulted. At his home, Andrews. keeps practicing drums, making his hand bleed in the process. After the band performs at the competition, Carltanner, core drummer, gives his music sheets to Andrews. Andrews. neglects the music sheets to buy a can of coke at the automated vending machine. As Carltanner is looking for his music sheets, they mysteriously disappear. Carltanner can't play without the sheets. Andrews. steps in, stating he knows the song, Whiplash, by heart. Andrews. plays well and earns Carltanner's spot. Thus, Andrews. is the new core drummer. Andrews.s family is having dinner at his home and talks about his experience in Shaffer. At the Studio Band, the band is practicing the new song called Caravan which needs an extreme time stamp measure of 330 bpm. Terencefletcher dismisses the band except Andrews. when Terencefletcher discusses him about that note. Shortly, Ryanconnelly, whom Andrews. met from the other class, arrives. Andrews. plays the drums to test the ability of the tempo but his tempo fails while Ryanconnelly plays well. Therefore, Terencefletcher takes Ryanconnelly as the new core drummer, but Andrews. does not agree to this. Jealous, Andrews. will be the core drummer if he earns the part. Andrews. breaks up with Nicole, saying his ambition will only hinder their relationship. At his home, we see Andrews. practicing drums harder with a pitcher of water with ice beside him in case he bleeds. As he fails to reach the required tempo, Andrews. punches the drum in frustration and his hand is bleeding, dripping it in the pitcher of ice.At the Studio Band, Terencefletcher tearfully reveals in class that a talented former student of his, Seancasey, has died in a car accident. The band rehearses Caravan, but Carltanner struggles with the tempo Terencefletcher auditions Andrews. Ryanconnelly and Carltanner for hours while the class waits outside but the three fail to reach the required tempo. When it is now Andrews.s turn, Terencefletcher kicks the chair then throws the drum away in wrath and even tells Andrews. to increase the tempo. In this process, Andrews.s left hand is bleeding and the blood drips onto the drum set. After a one minute of playing, Terencefletcher finally tells Andrews. that he earned the part. So Andrews. rents a car but he arrives late for rehearsal without his drumsticks. He drives back to the car rental office and retrieves the drumsticks, but as he speeds back, his car is hit by a truck. He crawls from the wreckage and despite his injury and bloodied face, he struggles to make into the jazz competition. With his left hand injured, he is unable to play and drops the drumstick to the floor. After that, Terencefletcher says Andrews. that he is done. Andrews. attacks Terencefletcher in front of the audience. Andrews. is expelled from Shaffer and contacted by a lawyer representing the parents of Seancasey. The lawyer explains that Sean actually hanged himself, having suffered anxiety and depression after joining Terencefletcher.s class. Sean's parents want to prevent Terencefletcher from teaching Andrews. agrees to testify and Terencefletcher is fired. Andrews. goes to the club where he sees Terencefletcher and the jazz performers. As the song ends, Andrews. walks out of the club but Terencefletcher calls him and having a chat with Terencefletcher. Terencefletcher explains that he pushes his students beyond the expected so they might achieve greatness. He invites Andrews. to perform at JVC festival concert with his band. Andrews. agrees and invites Nicole, learning that she has a new relationship. On stage, Terencefletcher tells Andrews. he knows he testified against him, and in revenge, leads the band in a new piece Andrews. was not given sheet music for. Andrews. leaves the stage humiliated, but returns and begins playing Caravan, interrupting Terencefletcher as he addresses the audience. The rest of the band joins him, and Terencefletcher follows suit. Andrews. ends the performance with an extravagant drum solo. Terencefletcher is at first angry, but gives a nod of approval to Andrews. as he finishes.