In the late 19th century, a ronin wanders down a dusty path. Happening onto a house, he asks the man to drink from the man's well. The man is busy berating his teenage son, who is going off to join a nearby gang of gamblers and doesn't want a long life of eating gruel. After the son leaves, the man insults the ronin by saying that all sorts are attracted when they smell blood. Walking into the nearby town, the ronin sees the streets are empty. A few angry glances from young gang members are shot at him from sliding doors. The ronin is caughtoff guard when he sees a dog trot by with a human hand in it's mouth. A younglooking gang confronts the ronin, but he wanders off unfazed. He wanders into an empty tavern and orders to the eldery owner, Gonji. Gonji only has hot saki and cold rice, but the ronin hungrily engulfs it. Gonji explains the hiearchy of the town to the ronin. Seibei is the older crime boss of the town, and runs a brothel with his domineering wife, Orin. Seibei appointed Tazaemon the town's major, but Tazaemon is like a puppet for Seibei. The competing and more powerful crime boss is Ushitora, who rules with violence along with his piglike brother, Inokichi. Ushitora has appointed the corrupt sakebrewer Tokuemon as the mayor and is more widelyrecognized than the powerless Tazaemon. Thinking that his explaination of the town would motivate the ronin to leave, Gonji is shocked when the ronin says that he's going to stay for a while. The ronin goes over to Seibei's home and summons his gang out. He tells them he's going to show them his skills. The ronin then goes over to Ushitora's home and is confronted by the same hoodlums who surrounded him earlier. As they posture in front of him, the ronin promises to kill them. The hoodlums attack and the ronin kills several of the men in a matter of seconds. The ronin tells the nearby cooper how many coffins he needs to make. The ronin returns to Seibei's home and Seibei gratefully accepts him. Since he is planning to attack Ushitora, Seibei wants to employ the ronin as a bodyguard. The ronin negotiates the salary to a much higher amount and agrees to the position. Seibei asks the ronin was his name is and, after the ronin puzzles for a moment out the window at a mulberry field, the ronin says his name is Unosukesanjuro.anjuro.uwabatake although he says he's actually nearly forty. Orin comes and calls Seibei to the other room. Unosukesanjuro.anjuro evesdrops on them and hears that they're planning to kill him after they use him to lead the attack against Ushitora. At noon, Seibei's men and Unosukesanjuro.anjuro gather outside across the street from Ushitora's gang. When they start marching forward, Unosukesanjuro.anjuro walks off. He let's Seibei know that he overheard their scheme to kill him. Unosukesanjuro.anjuro climbs the nearby belltower and laughs as he watches the two cowardly gangs lunge and retreat at each other on the street. The gangs never make contact and are interrupted when an inspector comes inquiring about an official killed nearby. Ushitora and Seibei promise to finish their clash later. Unosukesanjuro.anjuro return's to Gonji's tavern and watches out the window Ushitora and then Seibei fawn over the inspector. Later, Ushitora and his giant thug, Kannuki, come into Gonji's tavern and offer Unosukesanjuro.anjuro a position with him as a bodyguard. Unosukesanjuro.anjuro says he has many offers and has to think it over. Later still, when the wind is blowing gusts, a commotion surrounds the return of Unosukesanjuro. Ushitora's youngest and deadliest sibling. Unosukesanjuro.anjuro has attained a pistol in his world travels and shows off with it by shooting at the town bell. That night, Unosukesanjuro.anjuro convinces Seibei that he will spy on Ushitora. As a gratitude, Orin offers her geishas to Unosukesanjuro.anjuro but he tiredly declines. Out on the street, Unosukesanjuro.anjuro happens upon two of Ushitora's drunken thugs. He incapacitates them with his sword and ties them up. He goes back to Ushitora and says he caught the two conspiring with Seibei. In response, Unosukesanjuro.anjuro gleefully shoots both of the men. As a further strike back, Seibei's son Yoichiro is taken hostage by Unosukesanjuro.anjuro and Ushitora's thugs. Shortly thereafter, as Unosukesanjuro.anjuro watches from Gonji's window, the two gangs meet in the street. A young man, Koheiampnui.mpnui and his young son, come into Gonji's tavern and watch anxiously. Ushitora tells Seibei that he must hand over his territory for Yoichiro. Seibei reveals he has a bargaining chip as well, the beautiful Koheiampnui.mpnui. Koheiampnui.mpnui is Koheiampnui.s wife, but after he came to owe gambling money to Ushitora, Koheiampnui.mpnui was pimped out to Tokuemon. Koheiampnui.mpnui has had to listen as Tokuemon ravished Koheiampnui.mpnui every night. He is also regularly beaten by Inokichi. When the two gangs agree to trade their hostages, a tense situation ensues as Koheiampnui.mpnui realizes her son and husband are at Gonji's. Koheiampnui.mpnui is dragged away from her family and back to Tokuemon's and Ushitora's clutches. That night, Unosukesanjuro.anjuro finds out where Koheiampnui.mpnui is being kept and that six men are guarding her now. Unosukesanjuro.anjuro walks along with Inokichi and reminds him that he needs to beat Koheiampnui. Shortly after Inokichi goes into to do so, Unosukesanjuro.anjuro rushes and tells Inokichi that the six guards have been killed and that he must go back and tell Ushitora and Unosukesanjuro. When Inokichi rushes off, Unosukesanjuro.anjuro burst in on and kills all six guards quickly. He burst in on and pulls out Koheiampnui.mpnui and reconnections her with Koheiampnui.mpnui and their son. Unosukesanjuro.anjuro trashes the room to make it look like a struggle has occurred. When he returns outside, Unosukesanjuro.anjuro finds Koheiampnui.mpnui tearfully bowing to him, much to his annoyance. He says he hates pathetic people and tells them that he will kill them if they don't run, which they promptly do. Seconds later, Ushitora, Unosukesanjuro.anjuro and some of their thugs come back and are convinced that the massacre of the guards is the act of Seibei's men. Shortly thereafter, Tokuemon's sake brewery is destroyed with several wellplaced slashes. Ushitora is again convinced this a strike by Seibei, but Unosukesanjuro.anjuro begins to suspect another source of the skillful swordmarks left behind at these attacks. Unosukesanjuro.anjuro walks into Gonji's tavern and is disconcerned to see the usually grumpy old man beaming. It turns out Koheiampnui.mpnui has left a thank you note for rescuing them and Gonji is happy that Unosukesanjuro.anjuro is a good man underneath the gruff and violent exterior. However, Unosukesanjuro.anjuro enters the tavern and begins to grill Unosukesanjuro.anjuro. Unosukesanjuro.anjuro is able to take away Unosukesanjuro.anjuro.s sword and intercepts Gonji as he tries to take off Koheiampnui.s note. Unosukesanjuro.anjuro is captured and beaten badly by Kannuki and the rest of Ushitora's gang. Despite the continual beatings, Unosukesanjuro.anjuro refuses to disclose Koheiampnui.mpnui.s location. During a break in the beatings, the badlyinjured Unosukesanjuro.anjuro hides in a chest in the room. Kannuki and a cohort return and are bewildered that he's not there. When Kannuki rushes back to tell the others, Unosukesanjuro.anjuro crawls outside and gets under a nearby walkway just in time. Ushitora's whole gang desperately search for Unosukesanjuro.anjuro. not realizing he's literally right under their feet. Seeing an opening, Unosukesanjuro.anjuro manages to crawl on to the street and to Gonji's tavern. Unosukesanjuro.anjuro tells Gonji to tell Ushitora's men that he went to Seibei's and hides in the corner of the tavern under some debree. When Gonji tells Unosukesanjuro.anjuro's story, Unosukesanjuro.anjuro goes back to Ushitora and pitches this situation as an change to finally iradicate Seibei and his men. Meanwhile, Gonji gets the cooper to place Unosukesanjuro.anjuro in a coffin so they can carry it off to a secure location. When Gonji and the cooper carry out Unosukesanjuro.anjuro in the coffin, he asks them to stop so he can peak out and view the chaos as Ushitora finally eliminates Seibei. Ushitora's men have set Seibei's brothel on fire, forcing all of Seibei's out to shot by Unosukesanjuro.anjuro or slashed to death by Ushitora's men. Finally, Seibei, Orin and their son come out surrendering. Despite being unarmed, they are brutally killed by Unosukesanjuro.anjuro and Inokichi. While they watched the ghastly spectacle, the cowardly cooper has ran off. Gonji is forced to convince the now lone Inokichi to help him carry the coffin containing Unosukesanjuro.anjuro. Gonji and Inokichi carry Unosukesanjuro.anjuro to the graveyard, but Gonji dupes Inokichi into going back into town to look for Unosukesanjuro.anjuro. Unosukesanjuro.anjuro takes refuge in a nearby temple. After several weeks of recovering, Unosukesanjuro.anjuro shows his returned skill by catching a floating leaf on a knife he throws. When Unosukesanjuro.anjuro hears somebody coming, he thinks it's Gonji coming to bring him more food. But it's actually the cooper and he tells Unosukesanjuro.anjuro that Ushitora's men captured Gonji carrying food and are beating him for Unosukesanjuro.anjuro.s location. Angrily, Unosukesanjuro.anjuro arms himself with a sword and a knife and marches into town. A beaten Gonji is seen hanging prostrate from a rope in the middle of town. Realizing that Unosukesanjuro.anjuro is there, the whole of Ushitora's gang gathers in the street. Unosukesanjuro.anjuro menacingly stomps towards them. Unosukesanjuro.anjuro pulls out his pistol and warns Unosukesanjuro.anjuro to stop. Unosukesanjuro.anjuro instead breaks into a sprint. Unosukesanjuro.anjuro levels his gun at Unosukesanjuro.anjuro. but Unosukesanjuro.anjuro throws his knife into Unosukesanjuro.s arm before he can even fire. With amazing speed, Unosukesanjuro.anjuro unsheathes his sword and lethally slashes Ushitora's whole gang, including Unosukesanjuro. Inokichi and Ushitora himself. Unosukesanjuro.anjuro spares only one of Ushitora's cowering thugs, recognizing him as the son of the house when he wondering into the town. He tells him to live a long life eating gruel Lying in a puddle of his own blood, Unosukesanjuro.anjuro asks Unosukesanjuro.anjuro to hand him his pistol because he feels naked without it. When Unosukesanjuro.anjuro gives Unosukesanjuro.anjuro his pistol, Unosukesanjuro.anjuro grins and points it at Unosukesanjuro.anjuro. pulling the trigger. The gun is empty and Unosukesanjuro.anjuro doesn't flinch. Unosukesanjuro.anjuro then dies. A crazedlooking Tazaemon suddenly stumbles across the street and kills Tokuemon. Unosukesanjuro.anjuro cuts down Gonji from the rope and tells him that the town should be pretty quiet now. Unosukesanjuro.anjuro says See ya later and walks off out of the now nearly empty town.